Durban: Businessman Visham Panday brought an application in the Durban High Court for the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) to disclose whether or not they are paying for Avril Sahadew's legal fees. Sahadew, 43, a forensic audit specialist at the university, has appeared in the Pinetown Magistrate's Court after she was charged with defeating the ends of justice, kidnapping and crimen injuria. She was leading the investigation, known as Operation Clever, into the sale of placements at UKZN's medical school. The investigation went on for four years without anyone being criminally charged or prosecuted. Sahadew was removed from the investigation in 2019 apparently after a staff member laid criminal charges against her. It is alleged that in 2017, the staff member was going to expose her alleged role in the sale of exam papers. The staff member was allegedly locked in Sahadew's office and guarded by her bodyguards until he gave her all the information he had on the case. The staff member was then suspended for two years until the university instituted an investigation. The staff member was subsequently acquitted and returned to work. After the reinstatement, he opened the case against Sahadew. Last year, the university was ordered by the Durban High Court to disclose the budget that was spent on Operation Clever after Panday approached the court. The university then released a statement saying it spent R73.5 million on Operation Clever. Most of this money (just over R42m) was spent from August 2017 to May last year protecting Sahadew. It included the costs of guards, bodyguards, cars, and a safe house. On June 7, Panday made the application under the Promotion of Access to Information Act. In his application, Panday said that he wanted the university to disclose if they were paying for Sahadew's criminal case and, if they were, UKZN must provide the cost. He also wanted the UKZN to disclose the amount paid for the legal fees of Operation Clever. Panday said: "I verily believe that I am entitled to be informed as to the costs of that defence as Sahadew had already cost the first respondent (UKZN) an amount of R43m in payments for her protection. The information sought does not in any way compromise Sahadew's safety nor will it cause any danger to her." Panday said that his request would not cause a substantial and unreasonable diversion of resources. "... my request is clearly not vexatious or frivolous. All I seek is information regarding certain expenditures incurred by the first respondent (UKZN). I am entitled to the said information." The university has 15 days from June 7 to provide a notice of intention to oppose the application and to submit answering affidavits. The university did not comment at the time of publication. The Post