Durban: Authorities are investigating the death of a Chatsworth man who died just hours after he was arrested and allegedly beaten by police. Police have confirmed that the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) is investigating the death of Logan “Julz” Arunachellam. On May 21, Arunachellam was at his home when officers from the Hawks, the South African Narcotics Enforcement Bureau, Crime Intelligence and Chatsworth SAPS raided his property. Capsules containing possible drugs and cocaine were found at the home and Arunachellam was arrested. His wife, Candice, said she was with him just before the raid. “I run a salon and I needed to go in to see a client. Half an hour later I got a call to say that police were raiding my home and Julz had been arrested. I rushed home to find my son crying. “He told me that he saw an officer assault my husband and when he tried to help my husband, he was slapped. My mother-in-law, who is 63 and lives on the same property, said she was not allowed to comfort my son and the police had sworn at her.” Candice said her husband's friend was also arrested and neighbours told her that they saw Arunachellam walk from the house towards the police van in handcuffs. The men were taken to Chatsworth police station. "That evening I received a call from Julz asking for clothes to be sent to the station. I sent warm clothes,” she said. The next morning Candice was informed that her husband was taken to hospital. “My mother-in-law got the call at 4am. She was told he was rushed to RK Khan hospital for chest pain. I went immediately. Julz was under police guard and lying flat on his belly. I saw that he was still in his shorts and T-shirt so I asked the policeman about the clothes I’d sent so that I could change him. I was told I couldn’t touch him because he was under arrest. “Then I noticed a long cut behind his calf muscle. I did not question anything at that time because my focus was on his well-being.” Candice went to the police station to find his clothes. When she returned her husband was still in pain and sweating. “The doctor said they needed to do an X-ray. While we were waiting for the X-ray Julz told me that he asked for medical assistance earlier in the night but the officers refused. He said that after a few hours he asked again and an officer took him to another cell where he was assaulted. “He said he remembered being kicked or hit on the hip and then he blacked out. My husband was in the right frame of mind when he was speaking to me because he also asked about our kids and our son. He was not confused or mixing up his words.” She said the doctor informed them that he had a broken femur and needed to undergo an operation to place steel rods in his hip. She said after the consultation she was asked to leave due to the hospital's Covid-19 protocols. But she was told she could call the ward. “On Sunday evening (May 23) I saw a missed call from the hospital. When I returned the call, the nurse said we needed to speak to the doctor. At that moment I knew something had gone wrong.” Candice said they were told that her husband had died due to cardiac arrest. She said his funeral was planned for last Thursday but was delayed so a post-mortem could be conducted. She said her husband’s death had left her with several questions. “My husband was arrested because police found a small quantity of drugs in the home. He was a runner, he worked for others to put food on the table. Police arrested him because they found about three or four capsules and cocaine. Even though there are thousands of dealers, he was a family man. He went out of his way to support us and help me run the home. “The police did not follow the laws when dealing with my husband. Instead of ensuring he faced the law, they took the law into their own hands by assaulting him. They abused their powers. He was my husband, a father to three children.” On Saturday, the Activists Movement South Africa (Amsa) picketed outside the Bayview police station. Veronia Ncube, Amsa leader, said: “Officers should not believe they are above the law. Yes, something happened that the man was arrested, but you let the law deal with him, you don't take matters into your own hands. “Section 205 of the Constitution clearly states the role of SAPS in Society, that is: ’SAPS are to prevent, combat and investigate crime, to maintain public order, to protect and secure the inhabitants of the Republic and their property, and to uphold and enforce the law’. Clearly the officers are above the law. Amsa is aware that the Batho Pele principles were not followed together with the Constitutional Rights of Logan Arunachellam.” Ncube said Amsa did not condone Arunachellam’s deeds and did not promote crime or any wrongdoing, however, no one is above the law and the police, as protectors, should not have resorted to violence, She said Amsa also wrote a letter to the KZN provincial police commissioner asking for the officers to be suspended and for them to be taken to task. Colonel Thembeka Mbele, KZN police spokesperson, said she could not comment on the matter as it was being investigated by Ipid. Ipid did not comment at the time of publication. The Post