nikita.chiniah@inl.co.za Durban: Residents in Stonebass Grove in Newlands West want a truck yard to stop operations. They say since the owners of Bassas's Hardware opened the truck yard in 2019, there were traffic backlogs and excessive noise, properties and roads were damaged, and they were inhaling diesel fumes and dust. The  residents said the owner also kept livestock and the animal remains were sometimes disposed of behind their properties. They said they noticed buildings being demolished and roadworks starting in 2019 but they did not suspect that the area would become a trucking yard. One day, in September 2019, they said they woke up to see several trucks, earthmoving machinery, and vehicles as well as a mechanical workshop and panel beating shop on the property. The residents said they started a petition for the operations to cease. The petition was handed to the previous ward councillor. Pastor Maurice Baatjies, a resident and spokesperson for the affected community, said: "After handing the petition to the previous councillor, nothing was done for months. We then approached Shontel de Boer, a DA councillor, who acted immediately. She conveyed our concerns to the Development Planning, Environment and Management Unit in the municipality. "They then sent a team to investigate and found the activities to be illegal. They consequently served the owner with a contravention notice. Things have not progressed since then." Baatjies said diesel fumes filled the air. "We cannot live like this. It is unfair for us to be uncomfortable in our own homes. Their yard is filled with sand and the big truck tyres kick up dust. The dust mixed with diesel oil is in our clothes, furniture, curtains, dishes, on our vehicles and everywhere. Our plants, gardens and houses are covered in dust. "There is an excavation, which is about three meters deep, behind our properties and it does not have a retaining wall. Due to this, my wooden fence collapsed. I then had to re-erect the fence about two meters away from the boundary. I received no response from the owner to refill and build a retaining wall. In addition to this, the truck drivers recently started parking against the fence and pushing against it. The remains of slaughtered animals are also dumped over their fence, which is behind our properties." He said a loudspeaker was used to summon workers every few minutes. "Stonebass Grove has heavy foot traffic. Other than school children, people get off taxis on Inanda Road and there is hardly a place to walk. Large trucks mount the pavements to get into the truck yard and traffic is also being held up in the mornings when people have to exit onto Inanda Road." Another resident, Jacqui De Vries, said due to the heavy loads that the trucks transported, potholes developed and these damaged vehicles. “We cannot even hang our washing early in the morning before we leave for work because once the trucks start up, everything is covered in black exhaust dust. The fumes are unhealthy. I can smell it in my home, which is a few houses away from the truck yard." Sakhile Mngadi, the current councillor, said he met with residents recently to address their concerns. "After an inspection of the property, I have noticed that the trucks have damaged the road, sewage mains and side-walks. The quality of life in Stonebass Grove, in particular, has been greatly affected by the business. The keeping of livestock is also a danger to the health of residents. Some municipal workers approved health inspections of this property, which is bizarre and I am currently investigating." Viresh Bhana, a former PR councillor in the Ethekwini Municipality who worked with residents at the time, said while he welcomed job opportunities created by small businesses, one could not ignore the noise and air pollution. "With the construction of the Inanda Highway adding to traffic constraints, the heavy-duty vehicles also create damage to infrastructures such as roads and pavements. The dynamics of the Newlands landscape have changed dramatically over the years to accommodate small businesses. The residents have raised legitimate concerns as this affects individual health and devalues their properties. "The health and agriculture inspectors must investigate about the livestock to see if these businesses meet the legal requirements. Heavy-duty trucks should be moved to a designated area. Should these businesses be allowed to continue to operate then ratepayers must be given concessions as a relief measure." The owner of Bassas Hardware, who declined to be named, said they were committed to working with the community to find solutions. He said the business was creating employment and most of their workers were from the area. "The property stretches from Inanda Road to Stonebass Grove and the entrance was initially on Inanda Road. With the new freeway construction, it cut the property into two lots and we were forced to move the entrance to Stonebass Grove. We plan on restructuring in the near future." The owner said livestock was kept only during religious periods and denied that their carcasses were disposed of near homes. He declined to comment on whether he had permits to operate the truck yard and to keep livestock. Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad, the spokesperson for Metro police, said they were unaware of the community's concerns. "I encourage complainants to go personally to KwaMashu Metro police and lodge complaints. We will take multi-disciplinary action. We will get all the relevant authorities and departments involved in the matter.“ The eThekwini Municipality did not comment at the time of publishing. If you have a similar problem with truck operations in a residential area, email post@inl.co.za The Post 