NIKITA CHINIAH Durban: This Father's Day, Whitney Pillay will not get up early like she usually did to prepare breakfast for her dad. He was killed in a drive-by shooting four months ago. "I usually prepared a sumptuous breakfast for him. I spoilt him the entire day and he enjoyed every moment of it. This is my first Father's Day without him. This day will never be the same again. All I want now is justice for my dad,” said Pillay, of Verulam. Dayalan Vadivello Pillay, 52, was found under a tree near his home in Canelands. He had been shot in the mouth. Her daughter said she often went to the police station to check if the investigating officers had any leads on who killed her dad. “But they told us they will contact us if they receive any information." Reflecting on her dad's death, she said: "I was in Phoenix taking care of my grandparents when I received a call. I was told that my father was shot. I rushed to Verulam. When I saw his body covered in foil, I was completely shattered. “Out of the four children, I was the closest to him. We shared special memories and what I miss the most was him feeding me every evening.” Pillay said the killing had taken a toll on her health. "I got sick and depressed and ended up in hospital. My dad was loving, bubbly and good-hearted. He was always ready to help anyone in need." Her dad's sister, Mary Naidoo, said: "My brother's death still hurts me. He was the sole supporter in his home. Whitney was close to him. The night before he was taken from us, he spent time with us." She said they tried to ascertain what happened to him but there were no answers. “Until now, there are still questions running in my mind as to who would want to kill my brother. He was a kind and gentle man. My brother ran a small business installing built-in cupboards. People in the community loved and respected him. He was not a violent person. “We feel unsafe knowing the suspects are still walking around. They could shoot someone else. We are living in a sick world and I wish we could have tougher law enforcement. All illegal firearms should be confiscated." The Post  