Durban -TWENTY-FIVE years have passed but the families of three Pietermaritzburg policemen, who were killed while pursuing escaped criminals, say the pain will never subside. March 17 marked the anniversary of the deaths of Captain Lurantheran Krishnaswami Pillay and Sergeant Dasaraj Naidoo, both 33, and Captain Nilenthran Naidoo, 31, all of Mountain Rise SAPS. They were ambushed and shot several times while travelling in a police minibus in Magoda in Richmond. They were searching for suspects who had escaped from the Mountain Rise police cells the night before. Pillay and Dasaraj Naidoo died at the scene. Nilenthran Naidoo died in hospital a few hours later. Two other officers, who were also present during the search, escaped without injury. A few months later, nine suspects were arrested. Among the suspects were Bob Ndlovu, a former ANC self-defence unit (SDU) leader. Ndlovu and his co-accused – Zothani Latha, Nhlanhla Hlengwa, Dumisani Ndlovu, Lee Ngubane and Mbongeleni Nzimande – were found guilty of three counts of murder and three counts of attempted murder in the Durban High Court on March 12, 1998. Besides Latha, who was 18 at the time, the accused were each sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder counts and 10 years each for each attempted murder. Latha was sentenced to an effective 20 years in prison. Three other accused – Mzwandile Dlamini, Mduduzi Mbanjwa and Vusi Ndlovu – who were also on trial, were acquitted on all charges. According to newspaper reports at the time, Ndlovu was one of 2 300 applicants who requested a presidential pardon as part of a process initiated by then president Thabo Mbeki in early 2008. He was one of 105 convicted prisoners who were granted a presidential pardon. If a person has been convicted of an offence and a period of 10 years has not yet elapsed since the date of conviction, they can apply for a presidential pardon to be released and have their criminal record expunged. For the families of the three victims, life has never been the same. Pillay’s sister, Vanashree Pillay, said: “We are still shattered. A part of us died with him. He was the only son of our parents, Krishna and Vino Pillay. Every day we continued with our lives, while missing him at every occasion and trying to come to terms with the fact that we would never see him again.” Pillay was married to Drew, who died two years ago. They had three children, Navashan, now 34, Yourisha, 31, and Suvaniya, 28. “My sister-in-law was 29 years old when my brother was killed and she was left to raise three young children.” Vanashree said her brother trained at the SAPS Wentworth Training College in 1981 and joined the Mountain Rise SAPS in 1982. “He was later transferred to the Special Guard Unit in Durban and he was then posted to the Special Guard Unit in Pelican Park in Cape Town. In 1990, he took a transfer back to Mountain Rise SAPS. My brother wanted to join the police because his best friend was joining. He loved his job and assisting the community. He dreamt of emigrating to Australia and joining the police there." She said that following their deaths, Nelson Mandela, who was president at the time, met with some of the families at the Pietermaritzburg City Hall. “At the stage, the president was unaware that the people responsible for the killings had not been arrested. He asked my dad what he wanted him (Mandela) to do. My father said a team should be dispatched to Magoda to search for the suspects." Vanashree said she could still remember when the accused were sentenced and later when Ndlovu received the presidential pardon. “On the day Bob Ndlovu was convicted, he looked at us and laughed. Shortly thereafter, officials from the Department of Correctional Services informed us that he had applied for a presidential pardon. The officials requested that we meet with him so he could apologise to us. They also wanted our approval for his release. We refused to meet with them. However, we were later informed that he had been released. We felt more devastated. The manner in which Ndlovu reacted after his sentencing showed that he was not remorseful." Ruby Naidoo, the wife of Sergeant Dasaraj Naidoo, had to raise their three young children alone. “We survived through the grace of God. No amount of words or time can provide sufficient comfort. We miss him more than words can express.” Their children are Roxanne, now 32, Ro-Anne, 29, and Dean, 28. They have two granddaughters, Hayleigh Lyanna and Eliana Aramaya, both 2. Ruby said Dasaraj trained at the police training college in Durban in 1981 and also joined the Mountain Rise Police SAPS in 1981. “My husband's friends and family referred to him as Dassie. He was a friendly person whom the community loved and respected. Those who worked with him said he gave 100% to his job and that he was an outstanding team player who could never be replaced. He also completed and excelled in various tactical specialised training courses." She said he had always wanted to become a policeman. “He upheld justice and served the community with due diligence. There are many who enter into law enforcement and serve with distinction. There are only a select few who soar above the rest. This is the realm in which Dasaraj operated each and every day." Ruby said she enjoyed watching him fish. "It was his hobby. He liked the solitude of fishing and being one with nature. He also excelled in fishing as a competitive sport. Over the years, Dasaraj collected numerous prestigious fishing trophies." She said they had planned to build their first home together. “Dasaraj also planned to opening a fish tackle and boat shop and travel in the future, but I had to take on the role of both parents. It was not easy but I took each day as it came and I overcame the challenges and obstacles. The family also knew Dasaraj was always watching over us. Not only was he a wonderful husband, but a wonderful father, friend, colleague and so much more. "We say to ourselves, if only we could have one more minute to say goodbye and to let him know how much he impacted our lives. But alas, that is not possible. All we can do is honour Dasaraj by carrying on his legacy and by leading our lives as an example for others to follow." She said they did not harbour resentment following the presidential pardon. “We trust the country’s judicial system. We have no bitterness. We will forgive as God forgives.” Dashen Naidoo was 12 years old when his dad, Captain Nilenthran Naidoo, died. He said he had often yearned for a father-figure over the years. His dad was married to Trixie and they had four children, Dashen, now 38, Pragashan, 36, Kinishen, 26, and Shirdine, 24. When he died, Trixie was eight months pregnant with their daughter. “I still remember how excited my dad was about having his little girl after us boys. He prepared her bedroom and he completely changed. He became somewhat soft, compared with his normal strict, but kind, self. But before he could even meet her, he was taken away from all of us. “I remember that night before he was killed. We had a braai at home and dad received a call that he had to go to work the next day. He usually did not work on weekends but he had to go out on this matter. We never thought he would not return home, and I had to grow up in such a short space of time and be strong for my mother and siblings." He said that like his colleagues who also died, his dad attended training college in 1981 and joined Mountain Rise SAPS in 1982. “My dad loved to study and wanted to become a chartered accountant and work abroad. He joined the police as it was something most of the guys were doing at the time, but he also studied towards his accounting degree during this time. A month after he died, his results arrived from Unisa. He obtained his degree. My dad had also planned for the family to emigrate to New Zealand and he applied for a job at an accounting firm there. A couple of days after his results came, my mom received a call that he had got the job. It would have been such an amazing time in our home, as everything was falling into place for my dad.” He said he missed not having his father around as a mentor. "I would have liked to have had my dad to go to for the support and guidance I needed." Dashen said his grandmother did not get over her son's death. "My dad was the only son and it was hard for her to cope right until she passed away … There is never a day that goes by where thoughts of him do not cross our minds. I then think to myself, what would life be like if he was still around. I kept thinking how could the people who killed a man who worked so hard to protect his country, be able to walk free. I even stopped believing in our justice system." The Post