Durban -Ashwin Trikamjee is one of eight candidates chosen by the Parliament's Trade, Industry and Competition portfolio committee to be considered for the position of chairperson of the board of the National Lotteries Commission. Trikamjee, an attorney, is currently the president of the South African Hindu Maha Sabha. He was also the former president of the South African Soccer Federation Professional League. The seven other candidates are the Reverend Frankie Chikane, Beryl Ferguson, Themba Dlamini, Dr Muthuhadini Madzivhandila, Dr Barney Pityana, Terry Tselane, and Gugulethu Xaba. The term for the former chairperson Alfred Nevhutanda ended in November last year. Zandile Brown, who represents the Trade, Industry and Competitions Minister on the board, will serve as acting chairperson until a permanent appointment is finalised. The committee will meet to finalise questions and agree on a scoring and weighting system to assess candidates. Parliament will select three candidates, one of whom will be appointed by Trade, Industry and Competitions Minister Ebrahim Patel. Interviews of shortlisted candidates will be held in-person, in Parliament, on March 9. Committee chairperson Duma Nkosi said that the committee will do everything in its power to ensure that the process remains open and transparent, and that due process is followed. The committee intends to finalise its recommendations to the minister by March 2021. "The names of the shortlisted candidates will be security vetted and published for public comment. Thereafter, the committee will proceed with interviews of the shortlisted candidates." The committee is calling on everyone who wishes to submit comments on the candidates to forward written submissions to the Committee Secretaries, Mr A Hermans at ahermans@parliament.gov.za or Mr T Madima at tmadima@parliament.gov.za. The deadline for submissions is Monday,  March 8, 2021. The CVs of the shortlisted candidates are published on the Parliamentary website. The Post