Durban - Professor Terrence Kommal was recently chosen as one of the world’s most promising global leaders. Kommal, 38, of Waterkloof Ridge, in Pretoria, was one of two South Africans to make the World Economic Forum's (WEF) Class of 2021’s most promising 112 Young Global Leaders under the age of 40. He was selected for the category global health and health-care, while Justice Minister Ronald Lamola was chosen for his contribution as a public figure. Kommal and Lamola, and others on the list, were chosen based on their involvement in activities that ranged from reporting on racism to campaigning for inclusivity in medical research. Of the 56 countries represented, 11 leaders were from Africa. “To me, it is a recognition that in South Africa, no matter the circumstances, the opportunity to excel is always possible,” said Kommal. “It brings a significant opportunity to engage with some of the most innovative leaders in the world and to create further impact and improve the lives of our people in South Africa and Africa. My key focus will be on health-care and all the related social determinants of health.” Kommal, a medical doctor, is the chief executive and chairperson of the Medical Expert Consulting Group. Over the past 20 years, he has been associated with several organisations, two of which include the Royal Society of South Africa and the Young Presidents’ Organisation. He currently serves on the interim committee of the Healthcare Federation of South Africa and is chairperson of the Board of Tholwana tsa Lerato. It is a non-profit organisation that is focused on contributing to rural health-care solutions, clean drinking water, sanitation and health in rural Limpopo. In 2010, while he was part of the South African National Defence Force, he served as a doctor in the South African Presidential Team. He was also the first Professor of Practice at North West University. Kommal completed specialist training in pandemic influenzas, biological weapons and other infectious national security threats by the US Defence Institute of Military Operations. Despite all of his involvements and accomplishments, Kommal said his simple upbringing was a reminder to always stay humble. Kommal was born in Kenville, in Durban. He lived with 12 family members in a tin-roof home. “Looking back at the trying circumstances in which my parents began our family, I am indeed blessed by their selflessness as well as their generous hearts in actively contributing to society. This was done even when we had little certainty as to how we were going to pay the bills or buy the daily milk and bread.” The family later moved to Seatides in Tongaat where he attended Seatides Secondary School. In Grades 11 and 12, he was awarded an 80% academic scholarship to attend Crawford College North Coast. After he matriculated, he enlisted in the military. He did his first tertiary qualification, a diploma in management sciences, from Damelin, during military training. “I remember working late at night on assignments under floodlights in the middle of winter while working guard duty at the military base.” During his volunteer work, he was selected to study medicine. “I joined the military in 2001. There was a gruelling selection process. Five-thousand people were vying to gain one of eight scholarship seats to study medicine at the coveted University of Pretoria." Kommal was awarded a scholarship. He said becoming a doctor was first about being a servant to the community. After qualifying, he worked at 1 Military Hospital in Pretoria and thereafter in various facilities in Durban, Cape Town and Pretoria. Kommal, who did his post-graduate training in anaesthesia, said health-care collectively was a humbling experience. "I realise that no matter how much we know, we learn every day how little we actually know about the marvel of the human body.” He is married to Urvashi and they have two children. The Post