Durban - Tourism bodies and businesses have welcomed the announcement of a special R20 million fund for about 400 small businesses in KwaZulu-Natal which are in dire financial straits as a result of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The fund was announced by Premier Sihle Zikalala in his State of the Province address. Details about the fund and how business owners can apply for assistance will be announced later this month by Ravi Pillay, MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs. “This KZN Tourism Relief Fund has come at the right time to rescue businesses that are struggling and failing to keep their staff,” said business owner Chris Phili, chairperson of Clermont Community Tourism Offices (CTO) outside Durban, and chairperson of the Community Tourism Association, comprising several of the area’s CTOs. “This R50 000 grant (per business) will enable businesses to meet their overheads and pay their staff,” he said, adding his business was a recipient of the national tourism relief grant. “The relief helped to pay suppliers, staff and office staff. All that was required was proper accounts to be submitted. These lifelines can mean a lot to small businesses.” Those who had benefited from the National Tourism fund would not be able to get relief from the provincial fund. Heather Hunter, chairperson of the uMhlanga Tourism Association, said being in lockdown level 1 and the announcement of the fund would boost confidence among potential tourists. She said restaurants would get increased business and “our town will get its buzz back. That will encourage locals and tourists alike to visit and enjoy the vibe and meet friends.” Hunter said the hospitality industry was devising ways of attracting visitors. “Now we can really start to boost our businesses once again and put into practice all the amazing ideas we have had. “One, and probably the only benefit of being stifled for so long, is that the imagination runs riot and hope brings forth a kind of freshness of thoughts, just like being an entrepreneur all over again.” Meanwhile, Tourism KwaZulu-Natal has mounted an aggressive domestic and international marketing campaign to attract visitors to the province. As part of the drive, the organisation is currently hosting influential guests to showcase the region’s attractions. The Mercury