Durban - A Muslim woman believes her firearm application was declined because she wore a headscarf in an accompanying photograph. Parliament's Portfolio Committee on Police has now asked the South African Police Service to investigate allegations of religious discrimination. Maleeka Sayed, 37, of Benoni, in Gauteng, said she applied for a firearm licence due to increased crime in the area during the lockdown. The housewife and mother of three applied for the licence last July via Legally Armed. “I decided to take this step for self-defence and to protect my family," said Sayed. "My husband works about two hours away from home and I am alone with my elderly parents (aged 68 and 66) and my children (aged 6, 3 and 2)." Before applying for the firearm licence, she applied for the firearm competency that was accepted. “I, thereafter, made the application for the licence. The waiting period for each application takes more than 120 days. In January this year, Colonel Godi Msindo, of SAPS’s Central Firearm Registry, asked if I could submit a picture without my headscarf. “I explained to him that I wear a headscarf at all times and it was part of my religion. I also told him that I was waiting a while for the licence. He said that as it was my culture, he would speak to his supervisors and see what he could do." She said she had not received a response following the conversation and logged on to the SAPS’ website to check on the progress. "I searched for my firearm licence application status using a reference and ID number. I saw that it was declined on February 2. I then went to the designated firearm officer,  who is stationed at our local police station, to request a copy of the refusal letter.” Sayed said, according to the letter, the reason for the refusal was her photograph did not meet the provisions of one of the regulations and she had failed to provide such when requested by the registrar. “But, I had explained to the SAPS member who called me earlier that I could not remove my headscarf due to my religion and he was supposed to get back to me, which he did not.” Sayed said it had been a tedious journey, and to be rejected for such reasoning was heartbreaking. “I followed all the rules and regulations. It is disappointing that in a so-called democratic country, what you wear on your head seemingly influences some people's decisions. I did not apply for a firearm licence for fun but to protect myself and my family. We are living in a country that is rife with crime.” Sayed said wearing a scarf was part of her religion. “What happened to freedom of religion? When you see and identify me, I will be wearing my scarf and you will know it is me. If I take my scarf off for this picture, won't they say that they can't identify me with my scarf? Should I have to remove it every time I need to be identified?” She said she wrote to various authorities, including Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on Police, the Office of the National Police Commissioner and the Office of the Presidency. The police commissioner's office told her it was investigating and that they required 21 days to provide her with an update. "However, that was last month. I am still awaiting feedback." Tina Joemat-Pettersson, the chairperson of Parliament's Portfolio Committee on Police, said in a statement that they wrote to senior management of SAPS to provide a report with reasons that led to the refusal of the licence. “The committee will, subsequent to the receipt of the report, consider and formulate a view on the matter,” said the statement. Joemat-Pettersson said if the allegations were found to be true, it would be a direct affront to the democratic values of human dignity and freedom contained in the Bill of Rights. “Furthermore, if true, the allegation undermines the right to equality which is clear that ‘the state may not unfairly discriminate directly or indirectly against anyone on one or more grounds, including race, gender, sex, pregnancy, marital status, ethnic or social origin, colour, sexual orientation, age, disability, religion, conscience, belief, culture, language and birth.” She said serious consequence management must be implemented if allegations were proven correct. Brenda Muridili, a national SAPS spokesperson, said the national police commissioner received the letter. “The matter has been sent to Division Visible Policing wherein the CFR resorts under, for further handling. Remember that under the law, the applicant that is not happy with the outcome of their application may launch an appeal,” said Muridili. Advocate John Welch, the president of the South African Gunowners' Association, said it doubted the licence application was refused due to religious discrimination since the legal requirements for the photograph are specified. "The purpose of the photograph is to enable law-enforcement to identify the owner of the licensed firearm.” The Post