Durban - OVER the years, with the development of houses and businesses, the population in Phoenix has grown. But despite the developments, the infrastructure and the level of service delivery have remained the same, says Alice Govender. Durban - OVER the years, with the development of houses and businesses, the population in Phoenix has grown. But despite the developments, the infrastructure and the level of service delivery have remained the same, says Alice Govender. The community activist, of Redfern, has lived in the area for most of her life. She spearheads a WhatsApp group aimed at resolving some of the service delivery issues that residents face. "I believe we have more than 500 000 residents in Phoenix and the eThekwini Municipality does not have the capacity to provide efficient service delivery to the community. In most areas, the street lights don't work and this often means that the residents cannot see their attackers. We have asked SAPS and Metro Police to patrol the area, but we were told they don't have enough staff and the vehicles to do this. "Then we have a number of motor vehicle spare shops. Customers buy the spares and fix their cars on the roadside. I have called Metro Police numerous times and these business owners just get a warning. "I am also concerned about illegal dumping. The problem is two-fold. Residents dump their trash on vacant land or at street corners, in areas like Northcroft, Caneside and Eastbury. The smell is unbearable. We have asked the municipality to investigate and to fine those who are caught, but nothing has been done. "Residents have also complained that (Durban Solid Waste) DSW workers don't collect the refuse in certain streets. The dogs then tear the uncollected garbage bags and the dirt is strewn on the road and the roadside. It's an eyesore. When DSW staff eventually arrive, they only remove dirt packets that are intact." She said many of the roads in Phoenix had potholes or were damaged, the verges were not trimmed, and municipal parks were not maintained. "Children cannot play in the parks because the playground equipment is not maintained and the grass is long." Govender said companies are installing internet fibre but, in the process, are destroying water and electricity cables. "Areas like Palmview and Woodview are the most affected. The workers dig trenches for the cables and they strike the water pipes and electricity cables. This results in water shortages and electrical faults. The municipality takes up to 48 hours to resolve these matters and, in the process, frozen foods are spoilt. "I have brought all these concerns to the attention of the City but their turnaround time to resolve the issues is too long. Ratepayers deserve much better than what they are getting. The municipality needs a better strategy to assist the community," said Govender. The Post