Durban - The Unemployment Insurance Fund (UIF) in KwaZulu-Natal has paid out over 391 000 normal claims to the value of over R1.9 billion during the lockdown period. KZN UIF deputy director Gugu Khomo said the province was the third highest in terms of payments in the country. Gauteng was first with over 740 000 claims equating to over R3.9bn followed be Western Cape with over 460 000 claims worth over R2.3bn. In total, Khomo said South Africa had paid out over R12.8bn in normal benefits. She said there was an increase in claims in the third quarter of 2020 due to unemployment. Khomo said the labour centres were experiencing challenges with long queues due to the large-scale shedding of jobs and there was an applications backlog. She said one of the interventions was to engage employers to send teams to their premises for collection of documents and capturing of applications. “We have also established the rapid response team that assist with these backlogs,” said Khomo Employer spreadsheets, used by the Labour Department for the Temporary Employer/Employee Relief Scheme (Ters), were also implemented for bulk terminations to cut down on office visits, she said. “Claims can be processed without the clients visiting the labour centre,” said Khomo. She said previously, employees were required to visit the labour centres monthly to sign or declare continuation documents to confirm that they were still unemployed. She said to avoid this, a plan had been devised where once a person had claimed for UIF, benefits would be paid out until they were exhausted. “It is the responsibility of the labour centres to continue to pay.” She said people waiting for payments could send emails to the managers of the labour centres for cases where payments were not received. “We also created an SMS function for claims officers to inform clients of the status of a claim in all languages.” Khomo said UIF applicants were able to reply to these SMSes requesting further payment after 28 days. In addition, she said the UIF was in the process of recruiting queue marshals to ensure quicker movement at labour centres. The department’s Simenyiwe Mchunu said to address long queues at the Pinetown labour centre, people were being put into different categories depending on the services required including form collection, handing in payment forms, enquiries and applications. “The Pinetown centre is in the process of recruiting at least three queue marshals but the queues are currently being marshalled by the staff already employed there,” he said. Mchunu said the additional capacity UIF is providing to the labour centres would be adding to what is already being done by the offices. During a Ters presentation, UIF national spokesperson Makhosonke Buthelezi said payments had exceeded R60bn since April last year. He said as the economy began to open the applications started to decrease. In KZN, over 180 000 employers received Ters funds to pay over 2 million employees, a sum of over R8.7bn. Buthelezi said 533 120 foreign national employees were paid over R2.2bn while  87 806 domestic workers were paid over R326 million. With regards to the allegations of collusion between UIF officials and employers or employees related to Ters,  Buthelezi said the Special Investigating Unit was still investigating the matter. He added that according to their records the security industry was ranked first for filing false claims. Buthelezi said employees could report employers who had applied for funds but not paid them over to them by calling the fraud line 0800212799, calling the call centre on 0800030007, or reporting to the nearest labour centre. Buthelezi warned that criminal charges would be opened against employers who had not paid their employees Ters benefits. The Mercury