Following the death of King Goodwill Zwelithini religious leaders have paid tribute to the Zulu king describing his as instrumental in nation building. KwaZulu-Natal Christian Council (KZNCC) and KZN Church Leaders’ Group (KZNCLG):  We have learned with shock of the passing of His Majesty King Goodwill Zwelithini. We kindly express our deepest condolences to the royal famil,y as well as the people of our province and all South Africa. This is a huge loss, as His Majesty was considered the torch bearer, father and pillar of the Zulu nation. What we appreciated in particular was that His Majesty was deeply concerned about social ills suffered by his people – such as violence against women and children, the loss of ubuntu, the ongoing attacks on foreign nationals, the attacks in hostels and the political violence. On numerous occasions, His Majesty pleaded with the nation for calm and tolerance. We shall forever cherish the king’s instrumental role in unifying the nation and advocating for peace in KwaZulu-Natal. We derive solace from the fact that His Majesty, the King, is leaving behind an indelible mark of peace in the Zulu nation and a peaceful South Africa. The entire Christian Council and KZN Church Leaders’ Group are deeply saddened by the passing on of His Majesty, who himself was deeply religious. To the royal family and entire nation, please accept our deepest condolences, as we mourn our dear father and leader. At this moment, we find solace in Psalms 46: 1- 2 which reads: God is our refuge and strength, an ever-present help in trouble. Therefore, we will not fear, though the earth gives way and the mountains fall into the heart of the sea. We pray that the Lord grants peace, comfort and strength to the royal family at this time of grieving. We pray for strength, healing, peace and hope for the Zulu nation, and the entire South African community. We thank God for all health professionals who worked tirelessly in the entire time when His Majesty King Goodwill Zwelithini was in hospital. May His Majesty, our King, rest in eternal peace. South African Hindu Maha Sabha (SAHMS):  The SAHMS is shocked to learn of the tragic passing of King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu. This is a loss not only for the royal family, but for the entire South African community. His legacy will live on, as he was an exceptional king, and his foremost concern for his people was always a hallmark of his life. King Goodwill Zwelithini always promoted reconciliation among all communities, and celebrated the cultural and religious diversity of the region and country. May His Majesty, our king, rest in peace. South African Muslim Network (SAMNET):  The SAMNET joins all South Africans in mourning the loss of His Majesty King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu. We convey our sincere condolences to the extended royal family, friends, peers of the Zulu kingdom, and all South Africans at large. King Zwelithini was instrumental in nation-building and ensuring a peaceful transition in post-apartheid South Africa, and in KwaZulu-Natal in particular. His wisdom will be sorely missed. Uguqile okaNdaba. South African Jewish Board of Deputies (SAJBD):  The SAJBD extends its sincerest condolences to the royal family and the Amazulu nation on the passing of King Goodwill Zwelithini. In a reign spanning half a century, King Zwelithini was the recognised representative leader, whose royal stature embodied the greater history, heritage and culture of the Zulu people in South Africa. Appointed to that position at the height of the apartheid era, he helped to unite and encourage his followers during the difficult years leading up to the democratic transition, and in adapting to the new challenges of healing and nation-building. King Zwelithini will also be gratefully remembered by the Jewish community, particularly in his home province of KwaZulu-Natal, as a warm and generous friend, whose door was always open. Over the years, successive generations of Jewish communal leaders, businessmen and philanthropic organisations in KZN enjoyed his support in a range of far-reaching initiatives, that brought lasting benefits to the people of the province and further afield. Our thoughts are with the family of King Zwelethini and with the greater South African Zulu community during this sad time. The Post