Durban - Since February, 10 police officers have been killed nationally, both on and off duty, according to the Police Ministry. Among them were five policemen from KwaZulu-Natal. Constable Mfihloyakhe Ndlovu, 45, of Chatsworth SAPS, was shot in the chest while he and a colleague were responding to a domestic violence dispute in Welbedacht East on February 18. He died at the scene. On February 21, Sergeant Makhosaze Mdlangathi and Sergeant Mfikelwa Mtolo, of Plessislaer and Richmond police stations respectively, were ambushed and killed by unknown gunmen in Taylor’s Halt in the uMgungundlovu District. Detective Captain Sam Nyawose, 55, of the Umkomaas detective branch, was shot while en route to work in a state vehicle on March 4. He was driving on the M14 in Roseneath when a car with four armed occupants allegedly followed him and fired at him as he approached a speed hump. Sergeant Jeremy Martin Paul, of Mountain Rise SAPS, was killed while tracing a suspect in an attempted murder case at the Swapo Road informal settlement in Pietermartizburg on March 11.  He was allegedly shot next to the suspect's informal dwelling. In a statement at the end of February, Minister of Police Bheki Cele said it was clear the police were targeted by criminals hell-bent on terrorising society. He said it was also concerning the these attacks occurred mostly in KZN and the Western Cape. Earlier this month, while speaking at the funeral of two police officers killed in the Western Cape, Cele said it was a dark time for the police. He reiterated his call for crimes committed against the police to be met with harsher punishment. Mary de Haas, an analyst and researcher at the KZN Violence Monitor, said both on and off-duty police had been killed since the 1990s and that many in the SAPS continued to die violent deaths. “It’s not known how many of these deaths are linked to personal motives. However, the main factor putting them at risk is that there are far too many guns in circulation and far too many well-armed criminals. Dealing with the gun problem should be a policing priority. “Another problem is that guns being easily accessed by security companies. A new company may register and produce certificates to show its staff has gun competency. Then they acquire guns, and when the company shuts down we don’t know whether there’s a follow-up about the guns. Guns also go missing from private owners." De Haas said it was essential that the police were well-trained in the use of firearms if they needed to defend themselves. “From media reports, it seems that too many members do not have the required competency. Some police are careless about the storage of their guns when they take them home, with occasional tragic consequences. It is up to management to take all possible steps to ensure the police look after their guns properly and possess competency in their use. It’s also essential that the police wear bulletproof vests and protective helmets during operational duties." She said the government should improve the capacity of the SAPS firearms unit and ensure that it is staffed by those with expertise, clean records and proven competence. "I think the national commissioner is trying to do this … " Johan Burger, a senior researcher at the Crime and Justice Programme at the Institute for Security Studies, said one of the primary reasons the police were being attacked was suspects trying to avoid arrest, while trying to free prisoners or to rob them of their firearms, and during the commission of a crime. “Other reasons are also due to the inadequate training of the officers, poor equipment and shortage of bulletproof vests, and the attitude of criminals who have no respect for the police. Also, the law is not a deterrent as there are lenient sentences for police killers.” Burger said the Police Safety Strategy that was aimed at decreasing the daily risks faced by the police appeared to be relatively successful and deserved support. He said the ongoing internal battles and some poor appointments in key positions were destroying the heart of the police and it negatively affected the SAPS’ ability to protect its own members and the public. Richard Mamabolo, spokesperson for the Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union, said a contribution to the killing of police was the uneven allocation of resources. “This has made officers vulnerable even in police stations. Also, the fact that some are attacked for their firearms, which are later used to perpetuate further criminal activities. Most members feel not enough is being done and there have not been any measures to protect them against these attacks. "Similarly, the SAPS management has been complaining about budgetary constraints. The Minister of Finance has made it difficult for the SAPS to operate effectively since they have not had sufficient funds towards training and acquiring sufficient resources." The SAPS did not comment at the time of publication. The Post