He said officials at the eThekwini Municipality must be held accountable. Durban - BO Dayal, a community activist in Isipingo, said the area had issues on infrastructure and service delivery for about 10 years. He said officials at the eThekwini Municipality must be held accountable. "The community is cognisant that the municipality can only perform such functions that are legally permissible for them to exercise and this requires substantive evaluation of the law – constitutional or otherwise. “However, according to the Constitution, some of the objectives of local government are to provide a democratic and accountable government for local communities. This is to ensure the provision of services to communities in a sustainable manner, to promote social and economic development, and to promote a safe and healthy environment.  “Regrettably, the above constitutional imperatives are not strictly adhered to by certain individuals within the municipality and other organs of state. It, therefore, makes it challenging for the community to become participants and form partnerships for the public good and to resolve issues in an amicable manner." He said some of the concerns included exposed structures, such as opened house water valves that regulates water pressure, clogged stormwater drainage, refuse which remained uncollected, and overgrown bushes. "All of these pose a threat and danger to the well-being and safety of children and the community at large. The stormwater drainage has been ignored and it poses a recurring problem. When there is heavy rain, the stormwater drains are clogged. This results in a conducive environment for mosquitoes to breed and it becomes a potential health risk to the residents. “We also have the issue of refuse not being collected in some areas, which then piles up for weeks. There are also overgrown bushes, which pose a safety threat and it can be used as a hiding ground for criminals and criminal activity." Dayal said the community hoped to engage with the city to resolve their concerns. “We respect the municipality and want to engage meaningfully in the foreseeable future to obtain positive outcomes regarding issues and challenges within the Isipingo and surrounding areas.” The Post 