Durban - Anjana Bugwandeen, a KZN top matric achiever who has cerebral palsy, spastic quadriplegia and asthma, claimed number the one top spot in KZN for matric Learners with Special Needs (LSEN). The 20-year-old matriculated from the Open Air School in Berea with As in English, history, religion studies and life orientation. Anjana said she was happy with her achievement even though she never pushed herself. “It was never something I strived for but I’m grateful for the accolade .” Spending most of her spare time writing stories or reading novels, Anjana hopes to pursue a career in English creative writing. “I’m a big fan of Arundhati Roy. My favourite book of hers is The Ministry of Utmost Happiness. I also love writing creative literature and a bit of poetry.” Pursuing a degree in psychology is also an option she is considering. The Westville local said the biggest challenge of her matric year was having to work alone. “I had to find a way to deal with the stress of Covid-19 and working in isolation.” But once Anjana adjusted her mindset and focused on the tasks at hand, it became easier. “I looked at what I needed to do and I did it. I didn’t overwork, I listened to my facilitator, when it was time to close my books, that’s what I did.” She thanked her facilitator, Sylvia Makapela, and her parents for their support through her matric year. Advising the class of 2021, she said: “Just do your best, that’s all that matters. Don’t compete or compare yourself with others. We all have our own limits and the only race you should run is with yourself.” Anjana, the dux learner of her school, achieved a 79% aggregate and was awarded a laptop and a trophy during a visit by the Department of Education last Friday. KZN premier Sihle Zikalala mentioned Anjana’s achievements in his State of the Province address last week. “The story of Anjana Bugwandeen from the Open Air Special School reminds us that with support, hard work and strong will, people can overcome their odds. Anjana finished number 1 in the LSEN Schools in KZN in the matric class of 2020. “Congratulations to her for achieving 4As and 3Bs. We hope to have tea with her soon to see how our government can support her to reach her dreams.” Anjana's mom, Ashnie, congratulated her daughter and said she was proud of her. “She never looked to compete with anyone and focused on what she needed to do and she did it in her time. I would always ask her if she was studying for this year’s matric or next year’s, as she would take it so easy.” She said tea with the premier has yet to be confirmed. POST