Durban - A MEDICAL team from Doctors Without Borders (MSF) arrived in the Afungi peninsula in Mozambique, about 25km from Palma town, last week where some of the injured arrived and people are seeking refuge following attacks by Islamist militants. In a statement, MSF, which is a global network of medical and other professionals who specialise in medical humanitarian work, said they were concerned about the impact the new outbreak of violence would have on already vulnerable people affected by years of conflict. “Since the violent attacks began … hundreds of people have come to Afungi in search of safety, most after fleeing by foot and hiding in the bush for days. We hear repeatedly that all they want is to leave. They are terrified,” said Sylvie Kaczmarczyk, the MSF emergency co-ordinator in Cabo Delgado. “Most are in shock and are dehydrated and hungry. We have seen everything: people with minor to moderate injuries, as well as in critical condition with serious, life-threatening injuries. Children are among those who have fled. We have cared for one baby with a bullet wound. Pregnant women are also coming in terrible condition. "One woman, who appeared to be seven months pregnant, had intense bleeding. Her baby had already died. Mothers arrived with their newborns, some only a day old, delivered in very difficult conditions. Most mothers seen by the team were in shock, dehydrated and hadn’t eaten for hours. Therefore, they were not able to feed their babies. It is a heartbreaking situation.” According to the statement, before the attacks, it was estimated that tens of thousands lived in Palma. This included people that had already been displaced by fighting in previous months. "Many of them have now reportedly fled from the town in different directions. Some have taken boats towards the south. Others have gone inland through the bush or to the border with Tanzania, and many seem to still be hiding in the outskirts of Palma. "In parallel to the work our team is doing in Afungi, other MSF teams have prepared in Mueda, Nangade, Montepuez, Pemba and Macomia to support the medical and humanitarian needs of people fleeing from Palma. We have seen, for the moment, just a few hundreds of people arriving at places like Mueda and Montepuez in the last few days. Some present mild sickness, muscle pain and small injuries because of walking for many hours, as the journey from Palma through the bush can take several days, with little to no access to water or food. "Our teams are working to ascertain where significant groups of people fleeing Palma are currently and where they will be heading, to adapt our response and provide medical and humanitarian assistance when feasible." MSF strives to bring emergency medical care to people caught in conflicts, crises and disasters in more than 70 countries around the world. Last year marked 20 years of its humanitarian work in South Africa. For more information visit www.msf.org.za The Post