Durban - Two families, who were targeted by an alleged house robbery syndicate, felt justice was served after one of the robbers was sentenced to 20 years imprisonment. Zamani Lloyd Blose, 32, of Lamontville, pleaded guilty to robbery, housebreaking with intent to rob, and robbery with aggravating circumstances in the Durban High Court last Wednesday. He also pleaded guilty to two counts of attempted murder and the murder of his accomplices, Bongumusa Vuyo Hopewell Hlanguza and Siyabonga Ndlovu. They were shot and killed during one of the robberies. Blose was sentenced to a total of 60 years imprisonment on all counts. However, he will serve an effective 20 years in jail. According to the indictment’s summary of substantial facts, the State said Blose and other unknown assailants travelled in a white VW Polo to a home in Northdene on August 5. Upon their arrival, they gained entry into the home and accosted Shemei Ganesh before fleeing with a Hisense television and Sony Playstation 4. The State said the men drove to the home of Abdurahman Aboobaker Desai and his family in Westville on the morning of August 12. They had a knife, crowbar and firearm and broke into the house where they assaulted Faathima Abdurahman Desai and Miriam Bibi Desai. They took a Smart Plus tablet. According to the court papers, Aboobaker Desai and Muhammad Abdurahman Desai, who had licensed firearms, confronted the men. One of the assailants fired at the homeowners, who returned fire, fatally injuring Hlanguza and Ndlovu and injuring Blose. A fourth assailant fled the scene on foot. Blose was subsequently arrested and the Smart Plus tablet was recovered. According to the post-mortem report, Hlanguza died of a gunshot wound to the head and chest, and Ndlovu died of a gunshot wound to the head and neck. The State alleged that Blose acted in common purpose, which resulted in the deaths of his accomplices. In his plea agreement, Blose, a former taxi driver, said he was unemployed for an extended period and secured a job as an e-hailing driver in August. He said he was employed to drive a VW Polo, which was owned by a police officer. Blose said he agreed to a salary of R1 000 a week and that he was told that if he made more money than the target amount, he would earn a bonus. He said this motivated him. According to his plea, Blose said he was contacted by Thabiso, a person named Mapitso, and two unknown men, who needed transport to the Northdene area on August 5. He said during the journey, it became apparent that the passengers were going to commit robbery as they had masks, gloves and, he assumed, weapons. Blose said he initially did not want to participate but when he was promised a share of what they stole, he agreed. He said along the way, the car’s number plates were changed and he was directed to drive around the Malvern and Northdene areas, until a house was identified. The house that was chosen had lax security and the driveway gate was open. Blose said after he drove into the yard, the four men jumped out of the vehicle and put on balaclavas and masks. He said they ran into the house and they returned with items and jumped back into the car. He said Mapitso told him that it was an easy job as they merely walked in, pushed the people around, and took their belongings. Blose said he was paid R800. He said that on August 12, he was contacted by Ndlovu to transport him and his friends as they had a job in Westville. Blose said he drove to Chesterville where he met Ndlovu, Hlanguza and Mapitso and they changed the number plates on the car. "It was apparent that we were going to commit robberies as the occupants had weapons and housebreaking implements. I might add that Siya(bonga) had something wrapped in plastic, which I assumed was a firearm." Blose said when they arrived at the home, he was instructed to go inside, which he did, while Ndlovu and Mapitso waited outside. He said he was given a knife and Hlanguza had a blue crowbar. Blose said they jumped over the fence into the yard. He said Hlangazu pried the home door open using the crowbar. He said while searching the home, an old Indian woman appeared and shouted at them. “Vuyo pushed her to the ground. Whilst this happened, a young Indian female appeared from a room and screamed. She quickly returned into her room and she locked herself in. Vuyo rushed to her room and kicked the locked door open. We both entered and Vuyo slapped her and I grabbed the tablet from the stand.” He said he brandished the knife he had. Blose said while Vuyo was pulling the woman out of the room, two Indian men appeared and shouted at them to let her go. He said they both went towards the men with their weapons raised and the men, in turn, produced firearms and pointed it at them. Upon seeing the firearms, he said he and his accomplice fled the house. Blose said he alerted his accomplices outside that the homeowners had firearms. He said Mapitso raised his hand with what appeared to be a firearm and soon thereafter, he heard a number of shots being exchanged. Blose said the men got into the vehicle, and at that stage, while the shooting was still going on, he realised he, Ndlovu and Hlanguza were shot. He said he attempted to get away but he was unable to drive as he was injured. He said Mapitso fled on foot. Blose said he was treated by paramedics and that he was thereafter arrested. In the sentence agreement, the father of two, 9 years old and 7 years old, said his children’s mother was reliant on him for support. He said he was remorseful for his actions and that he hoped to be rehabilitated while serving his sentence. The State, which was represented by senior State advocate Krishen Shah, said Blose had a previous conviction for theft, he was not a first-time offender, and that the victims were attacked in the sanctity of their homes. Shah said there was damage to property at Desai's home and the items taken from Ganesh’s home were not recovered. Following the sentencing, the Desai family said they were happy with the legal process and that justice was done. Kogie Ganesh said: “We are glad he got a lengthy sentence. It was a traumatising time for our family. We were so fearful that a week after the ordeal, we put the house for sale and moved to a secure complex. “Until today, we still think about that day. It was by God’s grace that we were not killed. We are happy that he is behind bars and cannot do this to another family." The Post