The Durban University of Technology (DUT) has extended the online registration period for first-time applicants and returning students to Friday. The university also said that remote, online learning for first-time enrolling  students is expected to commence today. Senior director of corporate affairs at DUT, Alan Khan, said that this was to ensure that the academic programme was successfully concluded within this calendar year. “It needs to be noted that the majority of first-time enrolling students have already registered. As previously announced, returning students commenced with their remote, online learning on March, 29 2021,” said Khan. He said that the closure of the five Durban campuses, especially for students, would continue until further notice. This university closure comes after a violent protest erupted at the Steve Biko Campus on Wednesday, where more than 600 students protested, demanding that registration on campus be allowed. The protesters also allegedly torched a university vehicle, damaged computers and other university infrastructure. Police arrested 16 prospective students during the protest. Khan said the closure would allow the institution to consider and assess many pre-requisites for reopening and for allowing students, albeit in a restricted way, to return to campus. He said that the online functions and activities of the university, including online teaching and learning for returning students and unassisted off-campus online registration, have continued as planned. “We would like to remind all first-time applicants who may be experiencing challenges related to online registration to please report them to Student Admissions,” said Khan, adding that the institution would not be allowing walk-in applications. Meanwhile,the university has suspended Student Representative Council (SRC) president and DUT EFF Student Command chairperson Zabelo Ntuli. According to the precautionary suspension letter issued by the institution to Ntuli, the university said that Ntuli has been prohibited from entry to all university’s campuses. “In terms of Rule SR3 (2) of the DUT Student Code of Conduct as contained in the 2021 General Handbook for Students, you are hereby provisionally suspended as a student of the university with immediate effect. “You are prohibited from participating in any student academic and/or non-academic activity pending the investigation of serious misconduct of alleged violent threats that you made during the media briefing, inciting violence and bringing the name of the university into disrepute,” reads the letter. The university also ordered Ntuli to vacate the university residence by Thursday. On Friday, Ntuli said he met the university management to make a presentation as to why the precautionary suspension should not become a substantive suspension. However, the decision was not overturned. In a written suspension letter issued after the meeting with the management, university registrar Thirumurthie Pillay said that having considered the representation Ntuli made, the university had taken a decision to make his suspension a substantive one. “I confirm that a preliminary formal investigation has been completed and that there is evidence to support the allegations of serious misconduct that had been made against you,” said Pillay in a written letter.. Pillay also stated that a formal disciplinary hearing therefore would be convened. Ntuli said that his suspension was premature and he was going to continue to speak for the students despite the suspension. Related Video: The Mercury