Durban - THE Hawks have appealed to the public to assist them in locating Maqhinga Dube, 28, who was allegedly involved in the murder of a police officer last month. Dube was allegedly involved in the murder of Sergeant Thamsanqa Mbedu, 47, who sustained 27 gunshot wounds and died on the scene in Empangeni  on March 6. “Hawks members from the Richards Bay Serious Organised Crime Investigation Unit would like to make an appeal to the community to assist in locating Maqhinga Dube who is sought for the alleged murder of a police officer,” said Hawks spokesperson Captain Simphiwe Mhlongo. Mbedu was working at the Empangeni Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences unit and was driving along the road in the Iniwe area at about 9pm on March 6. It is alleged that Mbedu had an argument with suspects who had blocked the road near a tavern. Mbedu allegedly switched on his blue light and the suspects fired shots at him. Mhlongo said anyone with information on the whereabouts of Dube is urged to contact Warrant Officer Njabulo Ngubane on 079 881 1109 or the Crime Stop number 08600 10111. Tip-offs can also be sent on the MySAPS app and all information received will be treated with confidentiality. At the time of his death, said police spokesperson Colonel Brenda Muridili, Mbedu was in an unmarked state vehicle, a white Toyota Hilux Double Cab, and was alone. He was accosted by an unknown person who came from behind the police van and then fatally shot Mbedu after an altercation. Mbedu died at the scene. At the time it was also reported that Mbedu’s firearm was not found at the scene. Last week, a statement was issued after the virtual Cabinet meeting on March 24. According to this, the Cabinet was concerned about the reported attacks on members of the SAPS. “Since February 25, 2021, a total of 12 police officers were brutally murdered on and off duty in different parts of the country,” the statement said. “Cabinet calls on law enforcement agencies to ensure that justice is seen to be done for the fallen police officers.” At least seven on and off duty police officers have been killed in KwaZulu-Natal between February 7 and March 11. Many were killed in an ambush while others were killed execution-style or in a hit. Daily News