Durban - Residents of Trenance Park in Verulam took to the streets on Monday to protest against the five-day interruption of water supply. Alleged vandalism to the Mountview reservoir left residents without water since last Thursday. Residents set alight tyres outside the reservoir along Madrona Drive. A message circulated on WhatsApp groups in Trenance Park stating: “We are tired of the water issues. Please join us at the tank at 11am today 5th April, and let's demand answers from our municipality.#stronger together.” Ward councillor Johnson Chetty confirmed that Mountview reservoir had been vandalised and valves and fittings stolen. He said residents gathered in numbers to make their voices heard. Chetty said there were four technicians and plumbers on the premises conducting the repairs on Monday. “People are frustrated. They aren’t getting any constructive feedback from the municipality. There are routine repeated water supply disruptions in this area,” Chetty said. A resident, who did not want to be named, said they suffered without a water supply. “Many of the residents were at home because of the Easter holidays. There was a great deal of panic. Trucks delivering water have been scarce and are not going to all the roads,” he said. Ricky Naidoo, director of Venk-Pac, a local business, said it was a dry weekend for residents with no tankers supplying water to the suburbs affected. Naidoo sent three trucks carrying approximately 10 000 litres of water to the suburbs and outlying areas affected. “Water is life. Why must people be made to suffer like this is beyond me. Unfortunately, some people who are responsible for this sleep comfortably with no concerns or guilt. Our teams worked tirelessly late into the night delivering water.  People stand on the road with empty cold drink bottles and buckets. Our leadership is in disarray,” Naidoo said. Durban metro police spokesperson Parboo Sewpersad confirmed that the road and driveway leading to the reservoir were blocked with tyres. He said police monitored the area. Two weeks ago, the eThekwini Municipality issued a public notice saying there were water supply interruptions in the city due to intense load shedding by Eskom. Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said their teams were “working tirelessly” to ensure that residents received water at all affected areas. The Daily News