Durban - A WENTWORTH mother, whose son was injured when a car ploughed into him and three others outside their school, wants justice to be served. The driver of a Toyota Corolla was allegedly spinning the car on Retreat Street while schoolchildren were leaving school and walking on the pavement.  Four pupils were rushed to hospital after the crash in September last year. The incident was captured in cellphone footage by onlookers and widely circulated on social media. The driver, Thabo Khumalo, 22, and his passenger, Andile Myeza, 23, both from KwaMakhuta, applied for bail in the Durban Magistrate’s Court yesterday ((MON)). According to the charge sheet, Khumalo faces attempted murder charges. “The accused did unlawfully and intentionally attempted to kill three minors by driving a motor vehicle in a reckless manner, losing control of it and colliding into the victims,” read the charge sheet. Khumalo also faces charges of inconsiderate driving, reckless and negligent driving, failing to perform duties of a driver after the accident in terms of the Road Traffic Act and driving a motor vehicle without a licence. Khumalo was accused of failing to keep proper control of the car and failing to keep a proper lookout and/or driving in the oncoming traffic lane and/or spinning his tyres and doing hand-brake turns.  His actions resulting in the motor vehicle hitting a group of schoolchildren.“ Both men were charged for being in possession of stolen property – a Toyota Corolla – and receiving stolen property. Chantal Snyman’s son, Lealan Chen, 15, was injured. She breathed a sigh of relief when Khumalo was denied bail. Myeza was granted bail of R1 000 and the matter was adjourned until next month. “My son won’t recover emotionally from this ordeal. The driver must stay where he is, behind bars. He does not belong in society. I want justice for what happened,” Snyman said. Provincial police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker said the Corolla was stolen in the eManzimtoti area in November 2019. Daily News 