By Post Reporters Durban – The marking of about 14 million scripts matric exam papers has begun. The recruited markers will be working under strict Covid-19 compliant centres until January 22, when they are expected to conclude the marking process of about 14 million scripts. According to the department, 181 marking centres, including schools, have been identified and prepared for the marking process. This year’s announcement of the results is expected to take place on February 23. Elijah Mhlanga, the spokesperson for the Department of Basic Education, said the department had revised the health and safety protocols to ensure the safety of all those involved in the process, including officials, educators and administration staff. “The department is committed to ensuring that every marking centre adheres to the Covid-19 protocols so that marking centres are safe spaces for markers to carry out this critical function without being anxious about their health and safety." According to a report by www.iol.co.za, the department indicated the marking process would be conducted in schools and other designated venues throughout the country where the use of personal protective equipment by all would be mandatory over the next 18 days. The department has warned those who failed to disclose their positive Covid-19 status would be charged with misconduct. The late marking of the matric exam scripts is, however, set to push back the start of the academic calendar of tertiary institutions. Basic and higher education academic calendars were disrupted last year when the government closed institutions of learning in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic in March. Ishmael Mnisi, Department of Higher Education spokesperson,  said while the academic year would now start only in April, it would not be jeopardised by the delay in exam results due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He said there was also a plan to end the academic year later for last year, by mid-March this year. “So we don’t think we will be affected much by the release of the results or any process thereto." The Post