Durban - A syndicate of robbers targeting government offices took computers with critical information from the eMadlangeni (Utrecht) Department of Social Development (DSD) in KwaZulu-Natal yesterday. (Monday.) Three security guards were on duty when they were accosted, at 2 am on Monday morning, by a group of armed robbers who ordered them to lie down said police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala. The guards were tied with a rope and forced inside the building. The robbers took computers, a laptop, data screens and the security guards cell phones. The robbers drove off in one of the DSD vehicles. A spokesperson for DSD Mhlabunzima Memela said a group of armed men stormed the offices, tied up security guards with ropes before taking keys to access the offices. “The robbers locked the security guards in a room while helping themselves to state property. A total of 10 computers in different offices, two TV screens mounted at the reception and boardroom were taken. They also took a state vehicle after finding the keys in a desk drawer,”Memela said. KwaZulu-Natal Social Development MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza called on the police to intensify their investigation and to leave no stone unturned in ensuring that the robbers are found. “The robbery at our service office will result in a major setback to service our clients. The stolen computers contain sensitive information about people we serve daily.” “It is very disappointing that criminals continue to target government offices.  Any stolen government properties have a major impact on service delivery to the communities,” she said. Khoza said the DSD had experienced a number of incidents in different offices across the province where vehicles and computers were stolen last year. Khoza further expressed her concern that even in the previous incidents no one has since been arrested. “There seems to be a syndicate of criminals operating across the province targeting offices of the Department of Social Development. Police have informed us that they are currently investigating the matter, with the view to have the perpetrators arrested.” Khoza said. Memela said the theft will have a set back in servicing the community in the area because these computers store very critical information. “At the moment the management is working on the plan to ensure that communities get assisted. But our operations would not be normal due to this incident until we find a replacement for the stolen equipment,”Memela said. eMadlangeni Local Municipality ward 2 councillor Ntsikelelo Ndlovu said this will have an adverse effect on service delivery especially since most work is now done electronically especially reports etc. “This will cause a backlog in the processing of cases that the office is handling. The office has been struggling as well with vehicles due to the vastness of the area that is being service. eMadlangeni being a predominantly rural area with mostly arduous terrain and the loss of even a single vehicle has serious negative implications for service delivery within the area, Ndlovu said. In October, Independent Media reported that DSD had closed its office at KwaDambuza in Pietermaritzburg after a series of hijackings in which state vehicles were targeted. According to the department’s report, 53 state-owned vehicles are yet to be recovered after being hijacked between 2017 and 2020. About 21 vehicles were recovered in the same period. The department said of those recovered, most had been damaged, involved in accidents or had been stripped for parts. A case of robbery has been opened for investigation by Utrecht SAPS. Daily News