Durban - More than 40 years ago, Khatija Suleman Mall started Gorima's with a single product, Magi Masala. Today, there are 21 Gorima's spice shops in KwaZulu-Natal. This is the legacy the 70-year-old businesswoman has left. The Clairwood resident died in hospital last Tuesday after contracting Covid-19. "My aunt made the masala in the kitchen of Zuleikha Mayat, her aunt-in-law and the author of the Indian Delights cookbook. Magi Masala was probably the first wet masala to be produced in the world," said Suleman's nephew Arshaad Moola. "It was developed to provide convenience and good flavour. Convenience for those who didn't have the time to buy all their spices separately and good flavour for those who didn't know how to make a curry." "She approached a buyer at OK bazaars to list her product but she was advised to first make a name for the product. My aunt did that by selling the masala door to door and at flea markets. “In 1981, she and her brother, Goolam Moola, set up a small manufacturing facility for the masala. She only got into retail in 1986 when the first shop was opened at The Workshop in the Durban CBD. Gorima's is one of a handful of tenants that are still trading there." He said her inspiration to start the business was a combination of passion for food and the need to earn an income. "She always said that she would never work for a boss and earn a salary. She thrived in business. Since the inception of the Daily News Readers Choice awards for Best Spice Store, Gorima's has come second only once. It won first place every other time." Apart from business, she was a member of the Women's Cultural Group for 42 years. "In recent years, she was recognised as a trustee of this organisation. The Women's Cultural Group was responsible for publishing the Indian Delights range of cookbooks. All the proceeds from the sale of these books go to a bursary fund that assists students who cannot afford their tertiary fees." Moola said his aunt had empowered many home confectioners to become regular suppliers. "She assisted in sourcing ingredients and providing recipes for production. My aunt did a huge amount of community work - feeding the poor, educating people to take care of themselves, and giving money to those who deserved it. She also assisted disadvantaged families. But she kept all of this a secret. "My aunt was energetic, generous, kind, fun-loving and she was game for anything. Her door was always open. She was a gracious hostess and she was fiercely independent. She was ever-ready to help and loved picnics on the beach and travelling. 'You want food?' was the phrase she often used." Mall is survived by her husband, Junaid Mall, 73, sons, Sinan and Adil, and nieces and nephews. She was buried at the Brown's Avenue Cemetery in Overport on January 19. The Post