Durban - Vishay Singh dreamt of serving his country in the South African National Defence Force (SANDF). But earlier this month, he was run over twice - by two vehicles - that allegedly belonged to his friends. Singh, 23, of Marburg, in Port Shepstone, a trainee officer at the SANDF, is now in a critical condition in hospital. He suffered a brain injury and a broken neck. His two friends were arrested and charged with attempted murder. They appeared in the Port Shepstone Magistrate's Court on Friday. Their bail application was denied and they were remanded in custody. Vishay’s father, Vijay Singh, said he would never forget the events of January 9. "Vishay and my son-in-law (Renesh Moodley) were moving our cars from the roadside into our driveway. One of Vishay's friends, who was travelling in a white VW Caddy, stopped outside our home to talk to him.  It was one of his friends. The next moment, Renesh saw Vishay being dragged by the vehicle as it drove off. He ran to Vishay's aid and grabbed onto him while shouting for help." Singh said seconds later a BMW, driven by another friend of his son's, drove towards Renesh. "We know this driver because he was a friend from school. Renesh left Vishay's body and the VW Caddy went over my son's head. Then the BMW driver went over him, crushing his body and his legs. Renesh grabbed Vishay and pulled him to the side of the road. The friends drove off. Vishay was covered in blood. He could not speak or move. We were in shock to see him like that. "Renesh took him to the hospital and Vishay was placed on life support. He suffered brain damage, a broken neck, ribs and legs. We cannot see him because of Covid-19 regulations at the hospital. We have put our faith and trust in God and the medical staff attending to him." He said Vishay always wanted to serve his country. "He had just completed a one-year training course at the SANDF. He wanted to be an officer but, with his injuries, we don't know if his dream will materialise." Singh said he was thankful for the arrests. "What those boys did to my son was inhumane. We don't even know the reason behind this vicious attack. They robbed him of his life. All we want is justice. We have faith in the judicial system. “My wife (Veena) and our three daughters are devastated. He was our only son. We are praying for him to pull through." Captain Nqobile Gwala, a provincial police spokesperson, said a case of attempted murder is being investigated. The Post