Durban - An Overport woman, who was arrested for allegedly kidnapping, assaulting and robbing her ex-lover, has been granted R6 000 bail. Seema Dhaler, 41, appeared in the Durban Magistrate's Court on January 2 for a formal bail application. She was granted bail on condition she made no contact with the complainant. The case was postponed until February 19. During the court proceedings, it emerged that the ex-boyfriend had allegedly invited Dhaler to a hotel room on Margaret Mncadi Street on December 28. He allegedly struggled to let go of the relationship despite both parties being married. The state, on behalf of the complainant, said Dhaler arrived with a group of family members and forced her former lover into a car. He was allegedly taken to a location at Mahatma Gandhi (Point) Road where he was stripped naked at gunpoint. It is further alleged he was assaulted and robbed of an unknown amount of cash before he was released. He opened a case of kidnapping, assault and robbery at Durban Central Police Station. Dhaler was arrested shortly thereafter. Advocate Niven Rai, instructed by Dhaler’s attorney, Rajesh Singh, said the former boyfriend drove from Upington to Durban a day before the incident. He said the man then went to Dhaler’s hairdressing business in Overport and allegedly assaulted and verbally berated her. He then allegedly messaged her, telling her he wanted to have sex with her and his wife in a hotel room to show her what a real man was. Rai said Dhaler went to the hotel alone to confront him and she denied there was a physical altercation. In her bid for bail, Dhaler said she had three children - aged 16, 17 and 18 - and she was the sole breadwinner. She said her husband was crippled and could not walk. Dhaler said she had opened numerous charges against the complainant since 2013. This included assault and fraud. She said her former boyfriend terrorised her for seven to eight years and victimised her on social media. Captain Nqobile Gwala, a provincial police spokesperson, said: “The complainant alleged that on December 28, 2020, at 6.30pm, he was on Margaret Mncadi Street in Durban when he was kidnapped, assaulted and robbed by a group of people.” POST