Durban - The DA in KwaZulu-Natal have opposed the delay in reopening schools, saying when they conducted oversight visits to marking centres across the province, they observed that teachers were not observing Covid-19 protocols. They felt it may have contributed to the number of infections at marking centres. Across the country over 300 matric markers tested positive for Covid-19 and eight markers died, three were from KZN. DA spokesperson on education in KZN, Dr Imran Keeka, said that delaying the academic year was unwarranted. “If recent inspections of marking centres and observation of the behaviour of most teachers on-site are anything to go by, then one would need to question what unions are talking about when they cite health concerns as the reason for delaying the opening of schools. “The DA’s observation during these visits was that teachers openly flouted Covid-19 safety protocols except, perhaps, for hand sanitising. It is odd, then, that their unions should be pushing to keep schools closed. Encouraging senior management teams and general assistants to stay away is not only irresponsible but contemptible as well.” Keeka felt delaying the academic year could have an adverse impact on pupils and staff. “The DA strongly believes that the health and safety of pupils and teachers should be prioritised, however, we do not believe delaying the start of the academic year will achieve this. “Many pupils are still coming to terms with the disruptions to the previous academic year. To suffer yet another chaotic school year could have devastating long-term effects, particularly for those in poorer, less-resourced communities, where children also depend on the National School Nutrition Programme for regular, healthy meals. Delays could also have consequences for school administrators, who would face additional strain in trying to complete the curriculum in another shortened school year.” Keeka said the DA advised teacher unions to spend more of their energy on engaging with the departments of Basic Education and Health and to get answers about the roll-out of vaccines for all teachers and school staff. Teacher unions disputed the DA’s argument and said they were following the directives set by the Department of Health. South African Democratic Teachers Union provincial secretary Nomarashiya Caluza said all protocols were followed. “First, adhering to Covid regulations is the responsibility of everyone. We also visited marking centres. It is not true that teachers were only sanitising in marking centres. Teachers were wearing masks and there were only 15 markers per class. All this was done for compliance purposes to ensure social distancing and hygiene to the extent that where there were many teachers, we engaged the department to look for additional accommodation, which happened.” National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa) KZN chief executive Thirona Moodley said delaying school reopening would not have a significant impact. “We are of the view that the marking and the infections at marking centres were not higher than expected and overall marking went on well and on schedule. Naptosa did support the postponement of the opening of schools, as the country was experiencing the second wave with a phenomenal increase in the number of infections. “We did not view the postponement of two weeks as one that would cause major disruption in the school year. We believe that the decision was justified and teachers will be able to make up for the lost time. Management is in schools to ensure that all is safe and ready for the return of the pupils. Naptosa will continue to engage with the department to ensure that schools are Covid-19 safe for teachers and pupils.” Daily News 