Durban - The eThekwini Municipality’s Business Licensing Department is encouraging all businesses to renew their operating licenses by January 31. This will ensure that they can continue to conduct business for the year. “This procedure is conducted annually and is critical under Section 15 of the Businesses Regulations in terms of the Business Act 71 of 1991,” said the City in a statement. “The Act requires that every licence holder must, every year, confirm that the business for which the license was issued, continues to be conducted from the premises specified in the licence and that no other business for which a licence is required in terms of the Act is being conducted from the same licensed premises.” Thulani Nzama, the City’s Head of Business Support, Tourism and Markets Unit, said licences were valid for a calendar year. “Renewal is a statutory requirement and ensures compliance as well as proper management of businesses. The business licences that need to be renewed are within the sectors of food establishments and health or entertainment facilities.” Businesses can renew their licences via the licensing online portal under e-services on the City’s website: www.durban.gov.za or visit their nearest Business Licensing Offices, where they initially applied for the trading license. Industries and traders are urged to start the renewal process while there is still time because, after the deadline of January 31, license inspectors with other law enforcement agencies will be conducting random inspections to all businesses that did not renew to enforce compliance. The statement said those found to be in contravention of the Act would be prosecuted. “They can be issued with a summons and their licences subsequently withdrawn after due processes have been invoked.” There are no fees applicable for renewal. For more information, call 031 311 4535 or email: licensing@durban.gov.za for the central region. Those located in the north region can call 031 322 1803 or email: minenhle.khanyile2@durban.gov.za The west region can call 031 311 6209 or email: lindiwe.mvubu@durban.gov.za. The south region can call 031 311 5867 or email: ntombi.mbatha@durban.gov.za SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS REQUIRED TO SUCCESSFULLY RENEW THE LICENCE ARE AS FOLLOWS: –  Original licence. –  Certified copy of the licence holder’s identity document. –  Proxy letter (if the applicant for renewal is not a licence holder). –  South African Police Service fingerprints clearance with “No illicit activity identified” (For all persons in effective control of the business for health facilities or entertainment businesses). - Close Corporation or Company documents (if the license holder is the CC or PTY LTD. - The annual notification form can be downloaded from the Business Licensing webpage or collected at Licensing offices or the form can be completed online via the online portal. The Post