Durban - CIVIL Society Organisations, working on access to social security, welcomed President Cyril Ramaphosa’s signing into law the Social Assistance Amendment Act. In December 2020, Ramaphosa signed the amendments to the Act, which included additional payments linked to social grants; to provide for payment of benefits to a child-headed household; to provide for social relief of distress in the event of a disaster; to repeal the internal reconsideration process; to provide for an independent tribunal to consider appeals against decisions of the agency and to provide for the establishment of the inspectorate as a government component. In October 2020, the National Council of Provinces (NCoP) passed the Social Assistance Amendment Bill. The bill also aimed to streamline and improve the process of appeals against decisions of the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa), by providing for an independent tribunal to these appeals. Parliamentary spokesperson Moloto Mothapo said the NCoP’s passing of the bill follows consultation and public hearings in February 2020. The portfolio committee invited the Department of Social Development to respond to the issues raised in the submissions by Black Sash Trust, the Children’s Institute, and the Centre for Child Law, the Catholic Parliamentary Liaison Office, the Children in Distress Network and Nomhle Nkwanyana. The Children’s Institute, at UCT, spokesperson Paula Proudlock said these regulations could come into effect at the start of the 2021/22 financial year on April1, 2021. “Once the CSG Top-Up is in place, relatives caring for orphaned children who do not yet have a foster care grant, will be able to go directly to Sassa. They will not have to wait years for social workers and courts to complete their foster care applications. They will also no longer be at risk of losing their grants every two years,” Proudlock said. Centre for Child Law spokesperson Zita Hansungule said draft regulations needed to define which orphans were eligible and what proof their caregivers would need to provide to Sassa to collect the top-ups. “Taking into account the Covid-19 pandemic and its impact on child poverty and hunger, the top-up could play an important role in supporting vulnerable households. It could also relieve pressure on the social workers and courts who staff the child protection system,” she said. Child Welfare South Africa spokesperson Julie Todd said the top-up must be high enough to enable caregivers to feed, clothe, educate and protect the children in their care. Black Sash national director Lynette Maart said the need for the establishment of an inspectorate became especially evident following the fraudulent and unlawful deductions from social grant recipients’ bank accounts and the violation of their confidential data during the Sassa/CPS contract. Maart said the social grant payment system was inadequately protected against fraud. Daily News