Durban - Rihanna, the award-winning Barbadian singer, has offended many Hindus by posting a topless picture of herself with a pendant of the Hindu God Ganesha on social media last week. In Hinduism, Ganesha is considered the remover of obstacles. The singer, who wore silk lavender boxer shorts and other jewellery while promoting her lingerie line Savage X Fenty, was accused of “cultural appropriation”. Some social media users accused her of misusing their religious symbols, while others did not see anything wrong. Vedu(@IndicRant tweeted: “We are so tired and if we raise our voice against this cultural appropriation we are labelled as Hindu extremists. For you all hinduphobics, it is just a necklace, but for us he's god. Please stop telling us what is offensive and what's not. Audacity of these ppl ’hinduphobia doesn't exist’." Shivani Persad(@liveshiv wrote: “I can’t understand why people are pressed about Rihanna wearing a Ganesh necklace. Where is the outrage about all of the tattoos people have with Hindi or other Hindu gods? Now you’re upset? It makes no sense to me.” Hindu leaders and youth in South Africa have also weighed in on the discussion. Ashwin Trikamjee, president of the South African Hindu Maha Sabha, questioned if the singer was Hindu. "If she is, then she should know better than to pose semi-naked with a pendant of Lord Ganesh," he told the POST. "Either way, whether she is Hindu or not, it is disrespectful to pose in public with a pendant of Lord Ganesh while semi-naked. Religious symbols should not be trivialised. It seems that the Ganesh symbol, which has pure connotations for Hindus, is being abused and disrespected. "No religious symbol should be treated with disrespect, even by people who do not subscribe to the particular religion. Respect for the religious beliefs of others is crucial for harmony and peaceful coexistence, and Rihanna's behaviour is therefore contributing to disharmony and it undermines the wonderful efforts of organised religion and civil society at building a peaceful world." Ram Maharaj, president of the South African Hindu Dharma Sabha, said: “Rihanna has brazenly desecrated the sanctity of the revered sacred image of Lord Ganesha as well as defiled Hindu symbolism and denigrated Hinduism. She has insensitively and unscrupulously displayed gross disrespect and intolerance towards Hinduism. Seemingly, her patent intent is to insult and humiliate as well as hurt religious sentiments and impair the inherent dignity of Hindus worldwide." He said the dharma sabha wrote to Swami Vigyanand, the head co-ordinator for the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (World Hindu Council), on Thursday. “We want them to institute some form of appropriate and effective action to prevent a recurrence." The dharma sabha also wrote to Facebook and Twitter to delete Rihanna's post. “Rihanna is fanning the flames of religious friction, which will impact negatively on inter-faith harmony, unity in diversity, social cohesion and human solidarity. It is imperative that differences be embraced and people from various faiths co-exist." Vedhan Singh, president of the South African Hindu Youth Movement, said that for a long time western pop culture had seemingly used the Hindu religion and its symbolism as an embellishment. “This must stop. The Hindu way of life, with all of its expressions, is personal and private to each and every affiliate of Hinduism. Therefore, when an apparent inappropriate action occurs, it sparks outrage." Kovin Naicker, 30, of Cato Manor, said he found the picture appalling. "I am angered that a celebrity has shown such disrespect to a sacred and revered deity in Hinduism. She has reduced a Hindu deity to a mere accessory, and to add insult to injury, in a lingerie advertisement.” Karmini Chetty, 24, of Chatsworth, said: “While I don't see any harm in promoting her new lingerie line, was there a need to use a necklace with a Hindu deity? It seems we have a growing problem where some people have lost respect for others and their religions. The use of any religious item inappropriately should be condemned as it is offensive and disrespectful." Nelo Naidu, 29, of KwaDukuza, said: “Rihanna is one of my favourite pop artists of all time. But for someone who doesn’t understand the religious sentiments attached to wearing a Ganesha necklace, this is cultural appropriation. I am appalled by her choice of fashion piece. Also, this happened a few days after she commented on the farmers' protest in India. Why the sudden focus on us? For her, it's just a necklace, but to us Hindus, Ganesha is a respected deity.” Jeron Niveel Jayram, 21, of Malvern, said he did not see anything wrong with the singer’s actions. “Hinduism is a dynamic religion that teaches us to accept everyone as they are. I don't think what Rihanna did was wrong. There are people from the Hindu community with tattoos of religious figures, which is never called into question. At the end of the day, society chooses what it wants to see.” According to cnn.com, Rihanna expressed support for farmers protesting the new agriculture law in India. The singer tweeted a link to a CNN story on how internet access across New Delhi was cut off following violent clashes between police and farmers. She said: “Why aren’t we talking about this?!” on her Twitter account. India’s government then issued a statement condemning sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when used by celebrities. Rihanna has not commented on social media about the backlash. The Post