Durban - The construction of an alleged transit camp in Reservoir Hills has raised concerns among formal and informal residents. Last week, both formal and informal residents were upset after grading began on a municipal-owned vacant land on New Germany Road. The formal residents claimed they were not notified about the development, while those living in the New Germany Road Informal Settlement, located next to the alleged transit camp, said they needed service delivery first. Ron Naidoo, a community activist, said she wrote to the eThekwini Municipality and the premier and mayor's offices to highlight the concerns of ratepayers. She said the road was already congested. It also had two schools, a golf course, a temple and a crematorium. "While we are not opposed to homes being given to those in need, we already have over 6 000 people living in the settlement in that area. The road is already an eye-sore as you find piles of refuse on the roadsides, which lie there for days before being collected. Also, when it rains, the area floods as there is no sewage or drainage system. There is also a high volume of traffic by vehicles and on foot." She said the residents were previously told the land would be used for a library. "After enquiring, I was told the land would be used as a transit camp for those living in the Banana City Informal Settlement in Varsity Drive. It is believed the City will be building them houses, and in the interim, are relocating them here. Why move them to an already congested area?” She said the City should convene a meeting to discuss the proposed plans and to garner feedback. Devan Yegambram, a resident, said: “We cannot sit back and do nothing when our rates are paid. We should have a say when life-altering decisions are made. And how long will the transit camp be here? The one in Isipingo was constructed years ago and it has become permanent homes. We will start a rates boycott if our concerns are ignored." Another resident, who declined to be named, said: “We have about 12 informal settlements across the area. By building the transit camps, it is basically an open invitation to more people moving into the area." Protas Ndlovu, the Induna for the New Germany Road settlement, said they would not let construction continue until they received adequate service delivery. Informal residents stopped construction on the vacant land last week. "While we don't oppose the transit camp, when will the informal residents here get their homes? This settlement was built in 1996, and to date, not one person has received a home from the Department of Human Settlements. "We are not well looked after. Our refuse is not picked up for days, sometimes weeks. We have eight to 10 toilets, but only two are working. How can we be forced to live like this?" He said municipal officials have agreed to meet with them to address their concerns next month. "Until then, we will not allow any construction to continue." The City and the mayor and premier's office did not comment at the time of publication. The Post