By Yogin Devan Opinion: It is said the invasive myna bird was brought to Durban from India by indentured labourers between 1888 and 1900. Hence, they are referred to as Indian mynas. They were sold to unwary residents on the promise that they could be trained to talk. When in groups, mynas make quite a din – they produce high-pitched notes and chatter, most commonly a raucous “radio, radio, radio” and a jarring “kharr, kharr, kharr”. The Durban municipality declared the myna an avian enemy a while back - their droppings foul buildings and vehicles; they do not tolerate other similar-sized birds; and they can cause house fires when old wiring in the roof short-circuits and sets alight dry nesting material. Pity the householders who were tricked into parting with their shillings in exchange for a talking bird - the myna cannot talk any language, let alone in the Indian vernacular. The only thing Indian about this feathered creature which is now found in most countries is that it owes its ancestry to India. It does not seem to have a preference for Indian food (here, think pea dhall and lentils). It does not have bright, colourful plumage. At least the myna’s proud cousin, the peacock, has bright, shiny blue/green feathers and graces temples where Lord Muruga is one of the main deities. I got to thinking of the myna at the height of my irritation with the outpouring of expectation from many in the community that Kamala Harris, the newly sworn-in vice president of the United States, would display vestiges of Indianness at the presidential inauguration ceremony. Local Tamils also celebrated - as if the booze ban had been lifted - when Harris was nominated as Joe Biden's choice for vice president in August 2020. Let’s get one thing straight - Harris is no more Indian than an Indian myna. Genealogy links both to India. Both cannot speak an Indian language, let alone tongue-twisting Tamil. While so many people I know expected to see Harris decked out in an alluring pure silk Kanjeevaram sari or a designer salwar suit at the inauguration ceremony, she instead chose to appear at the West Front of the Capitol in a brilliant purple coat and dress, tastefully accessorised with pearls. How strong are Harris’ links to India? Not much, I’d say. Her maternal grandfather, PV Gopalan, was born in the tiny eastern Tamil Nadu village of Thulasendrapuram in Tiruvarur district, in 1911. Many decades later, he moved to Chennai. Harris’s mother, Shyamala Gopalan, left India aged 19, after being offered a part-funded PhD to do breast cancer research at the University of California. She married a Jamaican man, Donald Jasper Harris, a Stanford professor. Growing up, the young Kamala (a Sanskrit word for “lotus flower”) lacked the typical features of an Indian child. Instead of shiny, straight black hair, her Jamaican genes dominated and she had a mop of curly hair. In early photos she can pass off for a so-called coloured girl from Eldorado Park in Johannesburg, Mitchells Plain in Cape Town or Wentworth in Durban. There is little reference to anything strongly Indian in Harris’ upbringing. Whenever her mother visited her side of the family in Chennai, the young Kamala would be addressed in Tamil by her grandmother, who had only fragmented knowledge of spoken English. But for a few words, Harris is unable to speak in Tamil – or any other Indian language for that matter. Yet, the Tamil world went gaga when she used just one Tamil word when she spoke while accepting her historic nomination for vice president last year. Referring to her heritage, she said her mother had “raised us to know and be proud of our Indian heritage”, adding: “Family is my uncles, my aunts and my chithis.” The word “chithi” is the Tamil term of endearment meaning “aunt” and sent reverberations through India and its diaspora and boosted her fan base among Indians all over. In the run-up to the elections, the village of Thulasendrapuram was turned into a veritable shrine venerating Harris. Hundreds of posters appeared all over the village, emblazoned with her face. The villagers adorned their temple with flowers, offering special prayers for her success. The idol of Hindu deity Ayyanar, a form of Lord Shiva, was washed with milk and decked with flowers by a priest. Then the village reverberated with the sound firecrackers as people held up posters of Harris and clapped their hands. Did it matter to these mainly Hindu villagers that Harris was brought up as a Baptist? She used two Bibles to be sworn in - one Bible belonged to the late civil rights icon and Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall, who helped inspire her career path, while the second Bible belonged to family friend, Regina Shelton, whom Harris called a “second mother” to her and her sister Maya. If she felt strongly about her Indianness, she could have placed her hand on the Bhagavad Gita like so many Indians have done in Western parliaments. Harris is effusive in making mention of her mother being her abiding link to India. Perhaps, she should take some lessons in cooking Indian food to sustain the bond. She still can’t make a dosa, as she confessed to Vera “Mindy Kaling” Chokalingam, an Indian-American actress, comedian writer and producer. When Harris was elected as vice president, an organisation that promotes vegetarianism sent food packets for the children of Thulasendrapuram as gifts to celebrate her success. Harris is not a bunny-hugger - she loves roast chicken and tuna sandwiches. Indians throughout the world will do well to remember that Harris is only partly of Indian descent, not wholly. Hence, she cannot be blamed for not embracing her Indian heritage more. Indians should set aside their expectations of seeing Harris more Indian. She is not going to wear a traditional Punjabi dress to work at her office in the West Wing of the White House. She prefers pantsuits and blazers. Harris is not going to wear a “bottu” or red dot on her forehead, the Tamil symbol of marriage. After all, she is married to Doug Emhoff, a white American of Jewish descent, who has two children from a previous marriage. We should remember that one swallow does not a summer make. Having an Indian grandfather and uttering one Tamil word cannot define you as a pukka Indian or Tamil. Perhaps what we should rightfully celebrate is that Harris is the first black woman standing in line to be president of the United States. And we should applaud the fact that this black woman would be a leading advocate for social-justice reform. Yogin Devan is a media consultant and social commentator. Reach him on: yogind@meropa.co.za * The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. The Post  