Durban – Pupils at Durban  Girls' College have excelled in the IEB exams. Marianne Bailey,  head of the high school, said all matric pupils from the school who wrote the National Senior Certificate exams had passed. "We achieved 98% Bachelor degree passes and we had a combined total of 338 subject As and Bs, which equates to 84% of all symbols. “Samira Salduker was placed on the IEB list of outstanding achievers countrywide. We congratulate her on this exceptional achievement." The outstanding achievers' list means that she achieved within the top 5% of learners in 6 or more subjects as well as achieving a mark of 80% or more for life orientation. She said the matric class of 2020 dreams had dreams for their final year at school, and many were not realised. "What they did, however, prove, was that resilience and determination to succeed bear fruit. Their results testify to this. As a school community, we can be justifiably proud of the achievements of these young women, as can their parents and indeed, they themselves." Samira, 17, of Sherwood, achieved 7 distinctions. She has been provisionally accepted to study toward a BA and social science qualification at UCT. The teenager said her parents advised her to work to the best of her ability. "And this helped me not to feel pressured," said Samira. "Learning changed for us. From attending classes, we were learning online. I missed the interaction with my teachers. I hardly saw my friends and felt we couldn’t be there for each other during this time. But despite these challenges, everything worked out." Kimara Naidoo, 18, of the Berea, achieved 8 distinctions. She has been provisionally accepted to study mechanical engineering at the University of Bristol and the University of Manchester in the UK. Kimara said she sent her final results to both universities on Friday and was awaiting feedback. “I chose to study in the UK because I wanted to experience something new. I also feel the opportunities for growth are better. Once I receive my official acceptance, I will apply for a scholarship.” Kimara said she intended to live at the university’s residence. “I’ll miss my family in South Africa but I also have uncles, aunts and cousins living in the UK. I was able to achieve my results with the support of my parents, sister and grandparents. It’s important to have a good support system.” She said even though the world was changing, the matric class of 2021 must remain focused on their goals. Nika Govender, 18, of Musgrave, who was the school's deputy head girl, achieved 8As. Nika hopes to study chemical engineering at either the Stellenbosch University or at UCT. "Achieving such good results during a pandemic is the most rewarding feeling. It goes to show that nothing is impossible if you put your mind to achieving it. This pandemic has taught me to live in the moment and to give my best to everything I do. This is what the matric class of 2021 should be doing. Don't be intimidated by Covid-19." Amaarah Amod, 18, of Sherwood, had 7 distinctions. She wants to study dentistry at UCT. She said her matric year was challenging as both her parents contracted and recovered from Covid-19. Many from her extended family died from the virus. "The last year has been a roller-coaster. One of my greatest hurdles was adapting to online learning in my home environment compared to the more structured environment in school. I overcame this by isolating myself from all distractions." Amaarah said when her parents were diagnosed with Covid-19, it was emotional. "I felt alone. I had to isolate from my parents while they recovered. Despite them being ill, they still motivated and encouraged me to do my best. I wanted to make them proud so I continued to work hard and the results are proof." Naqiyah Moosa, 17, from Berea, got 7As. She intends to study a Bcom accounting at the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN).  "The challenge was online learning. I found myself working longer than I would usually do. In a way, it was a blessing because it helped me achieve my results." Sabeeha Suliman, 18, of Musgrave, also attained 7 distinctions and she wants to study pharmacy at UKZN.  "My success is a result of the support I received from my family and teachers. No matter the time of day, I messaged my teachers to get help or clarity on something I did not understand. They went beyond the call of duty to help us." Tahseena Hassan, 18, of Berea, has her heart set on studying pharmacy. She is awaiting feedback from UKZN. Hassan attained 7 distinctions. "Maintaining a balanced life with work and play was my key to success. Covid-19 threw us such a huge curveball. The schooling system the way were grew up knowing it was turned upside down. I knew that if I wanted to maintain my grades during the pandemic, I had to manage my time. I stuck to a routine because when you learn from home, it’s easy to be distracted." The Post