Durban - The SA Medical Association Trade Union (Samatu) has raised concerns regarding the non-payment of intern doctors after it received a number of complaints. The union, which represents doctors employed in the public sector, said this was not the first time that doctors were not paid their salaries. According to the union’s chairperson, Nkateko Mnisi, it was worrying that Gauteng, KwaZulu-Natal, the Eastern Cape and North West constantly had the same issue of non-payment. Mnisi said the doctors most affected were junior doctors, who were interns fresh from medical schools, community service doctors, and post community service doctors. She said the union had been inundated with complaints as some doctors were not paid at the end of January. She added that of those not paid, 70% were from Gauteng and the rest from other provinces, with KZN accounting for 20%. Mnisi said in KZN, the most complaints were from Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital and General Justice Gizenga Mpanza Regional Hospital, formerly known as Stanger Hospital. “Junior doctors get paid at monthend. However, they are still waiting, even now. We do believe the complaints that we received are just a few out of many that are yet to be paid. We are still trying to get hold of other junior doctors in the various provinces to come forward,” said Mnisi. She said many doctors did not get anything, while a handful were paid less than 40% of their salaries. Mnisi said that in various provinces, they had contacted the health departments to get those doctors assisted. “In Gauteng, they did respond. However, they did not give a proper answer on when will they pay. “According to the information that we have gathered from the doctors, they have had no communication from the Human Resource departments regarding the payment.” The most devastating factor was this was happening while the country was dealing with Covid-19, with health sectors experiencing a huge problem due to being understaffed. “It’s sad, especially for these interns that come straight from medical schools. They don’t have money, some are hustling for accommodation and food, how are they going to survive? They are also still expected to go to work even now, that is not fair.” The South African Medical Association (Sama) said that since last Monday, they had been in contact with the national Department of Health as they were seeking resolutions on the matter. Sama chairperson, Dr Angelique Coetzee, confirmed the majority of the unpaid doctors were from Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal and they had no response to why the interns had yet to be paid. “The n ational department said they are still waiting for the provinces for responses. We are aware that there are two sides to the story. “In some cases, the interns do not provide their details on time and in some cases, the hiccup is at the local hospital’s HR,” she said. Coetzee said the matter needed to be resolved as it could have a dire impact on the lives of the doctors. “We hope that this will be resolved as a matter of urgency as this is causing huge financial crises to the people who are risking their lives during this difficult time of the pandemic.” The KZN provincial Health Department was unable to comment on the matter. The Mercury