Durban - WITH the DA expected to give evidence from today at the Zondo Commission of Inquiry into State Capture, political analysts are sceptical whether the party will make a meaningful contribution. The party’s chief whip Natasha Mazzone was expected to appear on Tuesday and Wednesday and DA spokesperson on Correctional Services James Selfe is expected to testify  tomorrow and Wednesday. Mazzone said the DA had offered to present evidence at the commission. Political analyst Professor Sipho Seepe said: “The DA's appearance is likely to add little value to the commission. State Capture is about how certain individuals, companies, and organisations have abused their proximity to power to influence the affairs of the state in a corrupt manner. Unless it has concrete evidence of wrongdoing, the DA's appearance is more likely to be a mere publicity stunt.” The DA’s testimony comes after the State Security Agency’s evidence was laid bare last week with allegations that it was used in factional ANC battles. It was reported that the identity of a witness called “Miss K”, was released on a Facebook account last week. The same account also released the identity of a “Mr Y”, an alleged apartheid murderer and spy. Political analyst Thabani Khumalo said he did not see that the DA would add anything new and might use this opportunity to gain political mileage . He also noted how the commission had been bad for the ANC. “Since the commission started it has destroyed the ANC brand,” Khumalo said. He said the commission was open to anyone who could make a contribution as it strived to get as much information as possible. Khumalo noted that the commission had done a lot of work and many loopholes in governance in South Africa had been exposed. “It has been a blessing in disguise,” he said. Khumalo said he would have loved to see more civil society organisations coming forward. Political analyst Professor Boitumelo Senokoane said the DA’s appearance at the commission might be a politically strategic one rather than a legal one. “The problem is that every person and organisation is allowed to present at the commission and some people have gone to the commission to make allegations without any evidence. If the DA had any evidence, it should have been handed it over to the commission,” Senokoane said. He said the commission had become a boxing ring where into which political opponents dragged one another. Senokoane said even if a person proved themselves innocent in a court of law, politically they were still “injured”. Daily News