Durban - February marks the eighth birthday of Holi Cow. It’s been an amazing journey. What started out as my iconic office space became my little curry shop, cooking school and then a little cake shop. We made a few curries, and then made a mint chutney which led to a whole range of pickles and sauces. I made a mutton pie and a customer asked if he could buy one, it turned into a range of pies from chicken tikka masala to lamb vindaloo and even a Channa dhal and brinjal. We baked a cake or two and not so long ago I had 17 cakes to complete before the store opened for the day. We brought back old fashioned treats like fresh cream doughnuts and snowballs, idli and woorenders. It’s been an adventure but after eight years and the recent religious hatred being spilled on social media, it’s time for a new chapter. Religion teaches us to break away from attachment and I realized there are more important things than attachment to a brand or a logo. I have created so much more than that! There is no name or logo that is worth the ugliness that comes with people insulting each other on this page. The truth is this business would not have survived if it aimed to mock any religious group or belittle their beliefs. It would not have grown from just three employees to the 20 we now employ excluding my lovely daughter, Tanvi, and son, Rushil. I want to continue cooking and creating, not explaining the name Holi Cow or asking why “Gopals Bags and Leather” don’t suffer the same insult. By the way, I bought my first leather Busby handbag and matching purse from them in Durban. As some reading this would know, Gopal is also the name of the Hindu God, Krishna. I am in no way feeling sorry for myself but rather liberated and looking forward to my next few seasons and excited about what they hold. I’m surprised and pleased at my ability to see past this ugliness and say it’s been a blessing in disguise. I, as an Indian woman, am free to cook create and innovate without being questioned. I no longer wish to be associated and challenge the hypocrisy. I would also like to state that I haven’t been bullied into changing my name, I have made the decision to do so. I have a right to my Indianness and it is in no means intended to harm or offend anyone. The information circulating on social media is incorrect. We do not sell “persadh” nor have we hoodwinked Indian clients into supporting us.  I refused to sell basic rhot and have been asked to do so on several occasions; I make a rhot inspired cake and a banana cake topped with pecan nuts and a rhot like crumble. Both of these have been hugely popular and best sellers. A menu is published daily and yes, we do serve beef and have for years. It is not anything new and certainly no secret and I will continue to introduce new dishes to my menu and bakery offering. The question most ask is why now, after eight years ... why now?  I think none of us should pay mind to this. There is no point in asking and what you should ask me is, what’s next? I have loved creating the brand, Holi Cow, but it became weighed down by hypocrisy and religious debate.  Some have found this as an opportunity to take a dig which comes as no surprise; to those genuinely offended, it was never the intention and apologies. I would like to thank all of you for the support. We would not have been able to do it without you. The Post