Durban - The mother of slain make-up artist, Sherne Pillay, remained unshaken despite bail being granted to her daughter’s alleged killer, Ebrahim Chohan. She said he would get what he deserved. “At the end of the day, if he is not convicted by the law of the land, I believe the law of God will convict him. All we can do is leave everything in God’s hands,” said Nadira Pillay. “Everyone deserves to get bail and it does not necessarily mean he is exonerated. I have a lot of faith in the detective working on the case. He has always kept me informed on what has transpired and I believe he will do the best job he can.” She said she had placed her faith and trust in God, who she knew would see justice through. Chohan, Pillay’s boyfriend, was granted R10 000 bail in the Durban Magistrate’s Court recently, after he was arrested for her killing. Pillay, 27, a make-up artist and mother to a 6-year-old boy, was found in the bathroom of her Morningside flat on November 28, 2020. There was a cable tie on her neck and injuries to her face and body. It is alleged that she planned to leave Chohan and had packed her bags. It is further alleged that when Chohan gained entry to the bathroom, he moved her body to the bedroom and removed the cable tie before the police arrived. Chohan was arrested and spent Christmas and New Year’s Day in jail. During his recent bail application, the State opposed bail. It alleged that the deceased was last seen in the company of the accused at their flat, the day before her body was found. According to the investigating officer’s affidavit, submitted to court, the couple were at Chico’s Restaurant/Bar on November 28. They were allegedly not on good terms and were seen arguing. He said the victim later packed her bags and wanted to leave. The investigating officer further claimed that in a fit of rage, the accused became violent and aggressive towards the victim. He said the flat was found in a mess and cat food was strewn on the floor. This, he said, indicated a struggle. He said the accused was the only person with a key to the flat and that he was in and out of the flat on the day in question. It is further alleged that the accused tampered with the crime scene by moving the victim’s body out of the bathroom. “He put the deceased on the bed and cut the cable tie with scissors. He should have contacted the police immediately,” said the affidavit. In opposing bail, the State said gender-based violence was unacceptable and the court needed to set an example with this case. The State said the accused’s ex-wife had a protection order against him and there was a possibility the accused would interfere with State witnesses. The accused was further found to have previous convictions, pending cases, and no fixed assets or children, which made it probable for him to disappear if released on bail, the State said. Advocate Louis Barnard, instructed by Chohan’s attorney, Rajesh Singh, submitted an affidavit by Chohan in motivation of bail. His affidavit read: “On the day of the alleged murder, I was arrested by members of SAPS at the apartment which I shared with the deceased at the time . . . I co-operated with the arresting officer to the tee and did not resist my arrest in any way whatsoever.” He said he was living with the deceased for two months at the Morningside flat and that he was still legally married. He was, however, separated from his wife for three years. Chohan said before the accused moved in with Pillay, he lived with his mom, 69, and dad, 72, in Overport, and that he would live with them should he be granted bail. The accused is unemployed but he did odd jobs in the area. He earned, on average, R2 500 a month. His family managed to secure him a job as a receiving clerk and salesperson at an appliance and bed company. He claimed that he had strong family and religious ties. Although he travelled once to South Korea with his wife and has a valid passport, he said the police took it and that he did not intend on leaving the country. Chohan then informed the court that he was diagnosed with severe asthma and was prone to convulsions and fits, to the point that he lost consciousness on occasions. He said he was dependent on state facilities in Durban for his medication. Chohan said his condition also put him at risk of Covid-19. The accused denied any involvement relating to Pillay’s death said he intended on pleading not guilty when the matter went to trial. He thereafter listed his previous convictions. This included fraud, theft out of a motor vehicle, and malicious damage to property - all of which he was fined for. Chohan has a pending case involving possession of drugs. Advocate Barnard also submitted an affidavit from Chohan’s wife. It stated that she had never been physically hurt by Chohan during the course of their marriage. Magistrate Mike Lasich later granted bail. He said the State did not present a strong enough case against the accused and the facts put forward were not overwhelming to rescind bail. The matter was adjourned to March. The Post