Durban - THRILL seeker Liezl Swanepoel says she was filled with gratitude after her dream of swimming in the ocean became a reality thanks to an eMdloti lifeguard. Lifeguard Bongani Ndlovu helped Swanepoel, who is paralysed from the chest down, to get into the ocean for the first time in four years last week. The Pretoria-born Swanepoel said she was always an adventurous person, super bike enthusiast, advanced tactical firearms instructor and forensic investigator, before a motorcycle accident in 2017 left her an incomplete quadriplegic. She said she decided while in hospital that she was going to continue to live her life to the fullest and “not sit back and feel sorry for myself”. She looked at her options and started playing golf soon after her four month recovery, with a specialised wheelchair friendly contraption that held her up while she was able to putt. “I still have my adventurous spirit, I’ve just started wheelchair motocross with another double amputee, strapped in your chair with tricks, twists and jumps at a skatepark. I’ve done scuba diving, shark cage diving and skydiving, worked with the Adaptive Sports Fund and made my own special arrangements for all the different activities, but the one thing I loved, but was just not able to do, was getting into the water and swimming at the beach.” Having one bad experience two years ago, which left her afraid, Swanepoel said she hadn’t had the nerve to try it again. “Then Bongani came to my rescue on Thursday morning, and made it such an extraordinary experience. It was absolutely life changing. I would love for the authorities to consider making the beach more accessible to wheelchair bound people so we could experience the healing of the ocean. I also have a little service dog, Monsie, who was also there for the ride. She's used to riding a quad bike with me so also enjoyed herself. “I felt safe in the ocean, you feel so free, it was so effortless and amazing. Bongani is a treasure, an absolute angel, he didn’t make a fuss, was just compassionate and didn’t make me feel like I’m disabled, but like we were two buddies. I’m so grateful,” she said. The modest lifeguard said he had been taken aback by Swanepoel’s reaction and gratitude. Ndlovu recalled the request to go down to the beach and decided that he could assist. “I drove her down to the shore with the quad bike. She wanted to just get onto the beach and she said she hadn’t been into the water in four years since her accident, and I simply couldn't refuse. Everyone deserves a chance to enjoy the ocean,” he said. Ndlovu said he became a lifeguard because of his passion for swimming and he “just wanted to help people”. “It’s all about serving your community as best as you can and being kind to people and saving lives. “She told me she was a great swimmer and I couldn’t turn her down. I didn’t think twice, I felt like I had to do it, because four years is too long to be away from the ocean. I took her into the water and stayed with her, and made sure she was fine,” he said. Swanepoel said she loves KZN’s coast and, prior to her accident, over the years, she had visited her friend Tracy Robinson in Umdloti at least twice a year, spending time at the beach. “I’m not a beach person but Liezl is a ’water baby’ and loves the beach, she would take walks and spend her days swimming if I was working. I’m always so proud of everything she has done, even with her disability she excels. She is a person that inspires me, even through so much terrible pain, she is always uplifting everyone and seeing her fulfil her dreams is so special,” Robinson added. The Mercury