Durban - Excellence with eight distinctions for the National Senior Certificate matric examinations were Pietermaritzburg Girls High pupils Deepika Sirkar and Aaliyah Randeree. They both felt the pressure of the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions which brought about the closure of schools for a short period of time. Deepika said she would decide her career path once she officially receives her results today ((Tues)). She chose eight NSC subjects and also an Independent Examinations Board (IEB) subject Advanced Programme Maths – achieving distinctions in all nine subjects. Her NSC subjects were Core Maths, English, Afrikaans, Accounting, Biology, Physics, Information Technology and Life Orientation. Deepika did feel some pressure working from home but looking back she felt she managed to get more work done, which helped. “My school did have online lessons. I do admit that it was tough to manage the lessons. It is easier to talk face-to-face. I did not really have a timetable. I just did as much work as I could during the lockdown and tried to get ahead,” she explained. For her, it was disheartening not being able to meet others and have moral support. Her biggest pillar of strength through it all was her 12-year-old sister Neha.  Deepika advised the matric class of 2021 to work consistently while also giving themselves time to rest. “Don’t get too overwhelmed by mistakes and problems and try not to worry because there are going to be more struggles ahead. Work through past papers. It does help,” she advised. Aaliyah Randeree acknowledged that the matric class of 2020 were the first and hopefully the last to experience a lockdown. She excelled in English,  Afrikaans, Life Orientation, Pure Mathematics, Physical Science, Life Science, Accounting and History as an additional subject. She was deciding between studying law or accounting science. “We did not see it coming. We had to adapt to doing online learning for weeks which was not easy. Especially in subjects like Maths and Physics. It was hard to adapt and maintain focus.  It was easy to fall behind but I made sure that I didn't overwork myself to avoid burnout. I ensured I rested sufficiently and had enough sleep.” Aaliyah structured her studying in a way where she could first focus on what she could not understand during online classes. “I was lucky to have amazing teachers who did beyond what was expected of them in terms of online learning.  I also have a supportive family who was there with me every step of the way,” she said. Aaliyah advised matric pupils of 2021 not to let the pressure get to them. “Matric is like every other year but the pressure and expectations make it seem much worse. You have to work hard to achieve well but to do well you also have to be well-rested and focused.” The Daily News 