Durban - Five KwaZulu-Natal licensing officials who fraudulently helped scores of motor vehicle learner’s licence applicants to pass their tests had their sentencing date postponed to next month. They appeared at the Durban Specialised Commercial Crimes Court on Wednesday morning for sentencing. However, due to the unavailability of the correctional service report, the sentencing was postponed to March 2. The accused, Dumisani Nkala, Lindiwe Xulu, Meshack Ndlovu, Nkosinathi Zondi and Dumisani Phungula, were found guilty of multiple charges of fraud in November 2020 following a lengthy trial. They were among 19 suspects arrested when the National Traffic Anti-Corruption Unit of Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) and the Hawks raided the uMngeni Local Municipality in Howick in June, 2018. Nkala, a traffic officer, who was a management representative at the time of his arrest, was found guilty on 49 counts of fraud and Xulu, an examiner of driving licences, on 158 charges of fraud. Ndlovu, a traffic officer, was convicted of 7 counts of fraud. An examiner of driving licences, Zondi, was found guilty on 276 fraud charges and Phungula, also an examiner of driving licences, of 15 fraud charges. According to the RTMC, the officials were charged with fraud following months of investigations by the National Traffic Anti-Corruption unit which found examiners were assisting applicants to pass learner licence tests. “The examiners used a concealed light-emitting device to surreptitiously point the correct answers to the applicants, enabling them to pass without knowledge of the rules of the road,” said RTMC chief communication officer, Simon Zwane. He said all the officials were dismissed after lengthy disciplinary processes. Zwane said a former manager, Roger Everton, and a senior administration clerk, Wayeeda Mansoor, were still on trial. He said a process has now been put in place to follow-up on more than 500 identified individuals who benefited from the fraudulent activities of the officials. These convictions followed five-year sentences handed down to 10 motor vehicle learner’s licence applicants in 2019. An examiner of driving licences, Skhumbuzo Mkhulise, was found guilty and sentenced to four years imprisonment or a R10 000 fine in February last year. Acting KZN MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Kwazi Mshengu, has welcomed the conviction of the five licensing officials. He said he hoped the court would pass a heavy sentence that would deter other officials and members of the public from engaging in similar unlawful activities. “The Department of Transport will be stepping up its anti-corruption efforts as part of curbing road crashes as well as fatalities thus ensuring that motorists who are on the road are competent and eligible,” said Mshengu. The Mercury