Durban - TWO Wentworth men suspected to be high profile car thieves who have lengthy conviction lists were denied bail in the Durban Magistrate’s Court. In November 2020, police had received reports of a theft out of a motor vehicle at South Beach in Durban. Police pursued the vehicle, a Renault Clio, down Sylvester Ntuli Road and Somtseu Road and opened fire. A bystander, approximately 33-years-old, was shot in her left arm. Jefferson Parsons, 37, and Clinton Heslop, 36, also known as Pokémon, are facing charges of theft of a motor vehicle, contravention of the National Road Traffic Act by falsifying or counterfeiting a license number. Prosecutor Quintelle Adams said the men also faced charges of reckless or negligent driving alternatively inconsiderate driving of a White Renault Clio and possession of stolen property being a handbag and wallet. They were also found in possession of car breaking implements including allen keys and screwdrivers. It is alleged that Parsons was found in possession of a radio jamming device or possession of a radio reception blocking device in the form of a black and white remote device. They were also charged with attempted murder for intentionally firing shots at a victim with intent to harm or kill him.  It is alleged that they shot at pursuing Durban Metro police officers. According to Parsons’ affidavit in support of bail, he had two previous convictions where he paid a fine for being in possession of housebreak-in implements in 2010 and in 2019 for possession of an unlicensed firearm.  Parsons said he had memory loss due to the extensive injuries sustained in a motor vehicle collision in 2015. He was a victim of a hit and run collision. Due to the accident, he has a permanent disability and was unable to walk. He collects a disability grant. Parsons stated that the car jamming instrument found in his possession was his home remote. He said he was driving a hired motor vehicle and did not examine the car when he took possession of it. He was told that certain items were found in the car. He claimed the police vehicle was parked such that he was unable to pass through. He saw four policemen present.  All of them outside the vehicle. They had guns pointed at him. He was terrified and drove his car in the opposite direction. He said it was only two of them in the car and that video footage would exonerate them of attempted murder charges. He said both were unarmed. He claimed the police fabricated a charge of attempted murder to protect their liability. A primer residue test was conducted on him and no traces of gunshot residue was found on him or his clothing. Heslop said he was an only child and that his parents were diabetic and pensioners. He was responsible for their primary care and ensured they ate and took their insulin. He was concerned that since he was in custody, nobody was looking after them. Both men said they had three children to support and had pleaded not guilty.  Heslop had 18 previous convictions and Parsons nine. Magistrate Ashwin Singh said in the interest of justice bail was denied. “What is concerning to the court is the majority of Heslop’s convictions pertains to theft, which is linked directly to the matter at hand. They are no strangers to contravening the laws of the land without giving consideration to the consequences thereafter,” he said. Daily News 