AN oThongati (Tongaat) father has questioned the justice system after the man convicted and sentenced to life for the murder of his daughter was released on bail three months ago. Krishna Pillay, 76, of Burbreeze, said his family found out about Loganathan Naicker’s release from prison two weeks ago after he was spotted by family friends in Phoenix. Naicker, 45, formerly of oThongathi, was convicted of conspiring to kill Pillay’s daughter Jennifer, 29, who was also Naicker’s girlfriend at the time. He was also convicted of kidnapping and robbing her and sentenced to life imprisonment in the Durban High Court in July 2015. During the trial, it emerged that Naicker, a former security company supervisor, decided Jennifer had to be killed. He approached two men, Sandile Ncube and Mbongeni Mbatha, to carry out his plan for a cash reward of R20 000. The men accosted Jennifer in her driveway at her home in Ottawa, near Verulam, on May 21, 2008, then drove away with her in her Toyota Tazz. They took her to a nearby sugar cane field, where she was shot dead. The vehicle was later found abandoned. Her body was discovered the next day. Naicker and Ncube were arrested in March 2011. Ncube had turned State witness. Mbatha died in an unrelated incident. However, after being convicted, Naicker, who is now represented by attorneys Rajendra Nathalal and Michelle Sewsunker of RK Nathalal and Company, was granted R10 000 bail in the Durban High Court on November 19, 2020. Judge Dhaya Pillay said in his court order that Naicker's application for bail pending his appeal (for his conviction and sentence) to the full court of KwaZulu-Natal High Court was granted by consent. His bail conditions included that he resides in Phoenix and reports to the local police station once a week on a Friday. Naicker also has to hand over his passports or travel documents and cannot leave the province without informing the investigating officer. Krishna Pillay said Jennifer was one of six children and they shared a close bond. “Her death took a toll on the entire family, especially because of the cruel and inhumane manner that she was taken from us. We waited for seven years for justice and when we got it, it was short-lived. How does a person sentenced to life for murder come out on bail of R10 000? We are angry that we were not informed that he was applying for bail. If we knew, we would have protested against it." He said after they found out, they called the investigating officer at the time, who was also unaware of the development in the case. "We fear he could come after our family and that our lives are in danger. Now old wounds have reopened." Sewsunker said Naicker’s leave to appeal was granted last August and he thereafter applied for bail pending the appeal in November. She said the bail was granted and he was released from Westville Prison. Sewsunker said the appeal was still pending. The National Prosecuting Authority did not respond at the time of publication. The Post