Durban - CONVICTED rapist Lindokuhle Mlangeni, who dragged his victim by her hair towards his home, was this week sentenced to life imprisonment by the Verulam Regional Court. The 25-year-old was also sentenced to five years imprisonment for kidnapping. During the trial, the court heard how Mlangeni kidnapped a 19-year-old woman on her way to a taxi rank to return home after work. He denied kidnapping the woman, maintaining they had consensual sex. Mlangeni, from Ndwedwe, had made advances to the woman that were rejected and as she walked away he followed her, pulling her into a nearby bush where he strangled her until she lost consciousness. When she regained consciousness, she found herself naked and Mlangeni pulled her by her hair towards his home where he stopped midway and gave her his underpants to wear. During the trial, Prosecutor Ishara Sewnarayan had called the victim to testify and she told the court how Mlangeni held her hostage in his home where he raped her through the night. She was locked in the house until the next afternoon. The woman arrived home in his underpants and T-shirt telling her mother about the ordeal. She visited a doctor the following day and reported her rape to police a month later. The woman was able to recognise her rapist as she had seen him on more than one occasion at the taxi rank. She led police to his home and he was arrested. In her victim impact statement, the woman said she had lost faith in God. “I am now unemployed as a result of this offence. On that day, I was coming from work when I was seen by the accused and got raped. I decided to quit my job as I fear being raped again if I go out. I have even thought about suicide. This case has cost me my reputation and the dignity of my family.” The court was presented with medical evidence and a report from the victim’s mother. The court found the victim was a credible and reliable witness in spite of Mlangeni’s denial. National Prosecuting Authority regional spokesperson Natasha Kara said they welcomed the sentence and conviction. Mlangeni’s sentence comes just two weeks after 18 sexual offenders were convicted and sentenced in the province last month. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said that a total of 149 years imprisonment for sexual-related cases were attained. “As from 1 December 2020, until 31January 2021, a total of 438 suspects were arrested by detectives from the FCS Unit for various cases such as  rape, sexual assault, assault, concealment of birth, kidnapping and attempted rape,” she said. Acting Provincial Commissioner Major General Thulani Gonya said cases like these were always disturbing. “The women are let down by the very people who should be protecting them. Police officials are fighting this epidemic around the clock to bring all perpetrators.” Daily News