Durban - The South African Hindu Maha Sabha has written to celebrity chef, Yudhika Sujanani, asking her to change the name of her restaurant, Holi Cow, and apologise to Hindus. The restaurant opened eight years ago and is based in Fourways, Johannesburg. It received several rave reviews over the years. A few weeks ago, a petition was created and circulated on Facebook by a group calling itself South African Indians have Rights (SAIR). It was directed to, among others, Ashwin Trikamjee, president of the South African Hindu Maha Sabha, the South African Tamil Federation and the World Hindu Foundation South Africa. The identity of the person or people leading the group is not known at this stage. But the petition was signed by about 3000 people. The aim is to get 5000 signatures. According to the petition: “As Hindus in SA, it is time to take a stand and put an end to cultural / religious appropriation. It is only through this mechanism that we can set the tone for preventing further disrespect in the future. “We have been calm and silent for too long. It is the reason that we continue to be disrespected because it is the norm that Hindus won’t speak up nor put their foot down. Hindus are generally peaceful people, but it does not mean that we should be silent nor allow people to disrespect us.” The authors of the petition took issue with the logo of Holi Cow. “The company log is that of a cow head which has markings on its forehead that depict a Tilak (a mark on the forehead) with decoration around the head that closely resemble drawings used within the Hindu faith.” According to the authors of the petition, the restaurant prepares beef and roht. Hindus regard cows as sacred and do not eat beef. Roht is a flour based offering that Hindus use in prayer. “It is not acceptable that roht is being made on a premises that prepares beef, let alone the issue of selling roht when it hasn’t been used for the purpose of prayer. Roht is not a general treat. It is made very specifically to celebrate very specific deities and it is disrespectful to use it as a mechanism to drive profit.” Trikamjee told POST he had also spoken to Sujanani. “She expressed concern that someone was threatening her and her family. Her restaurant has been open for eight years, and only now a petition was created.” Trikamjee said after the matter had been investigated by a team of attorneys, the Sabha had decided to write to Sujanani. They want her to change the name of the restaurant and to apologise to Hindus. The letter reads: "With further reference to this matter, it has now been brought to our attention that you utilised Hindu symbols to market your business. Over and above that you are selling Roht, which is a Hindu offering for all religious observances. We are therefore requesting you to: - Apologise for your actions in using Hindu Symbols for commercial purposes - Forthwith change the name of your business - Remove all reference to a Cow with a symbolic Dot We request that you do so immediately, failing which, we will report the matter to the Human Rights Commission as well as consider available legal action. I trust this will not be necessary." In a statement, the World Hindu Foundation South Africa said: "Hindu symbols have been used to promote the business while at the same time denigrating the self-same symbols by selling beef on the premises." Pravesh Hurdeen, the president of the foundation, added: "Sujanani has alluded to the cow being sacred and as a ‘loving creature of Shri Krishna who gives most and takes little, just as mothers would. “We agree with this sentiment of the cow being sacred in Hinduism. We, however, find that the act of selling beef and references to the cooking of beef abhorrent and is a gross misrepresentation of the name and ethos of Gaumata in Hinduism. "Such religious intolerance and offence go against the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, which promotes respect for all religions.” The Post 