Durban: A Chatsworth businessman who was allegedly assaulted with a firearm and arrested by metro police is demanding justice. Jordan Pillay, 23, who owns a call centre that sells insurance and funeral cover on Florence Nightingale Drive, said he was driving out of the property when a metro officer allegedly stopped him last Wednesday. “He allowed my mother to reverse onto the main road but when he saw me try to reverse, he signalled that I must return to the parking lot." Pillay said he was halfway in the road and continued to reverse. "He then put on the police lights and signalled for me to pull over." Pillay, who was with a friend, said they got out of the car and he approached the officer. “He was standing in front of his police van. A female officer was with him. I asked him what fine he intended to issue to me today – as he previously fined me for not having number plates on a new car that I bought. This was despite having a temporary number plate on the back window. He said he would find a fault. "My friend then walked towards us and asked what was wrong. The policeman said we must not worry and that we were going to be arrested. He then radioed for back-up. We were confused because we did not do anything wrong." Pillay said that by that time his mother had returned after she did not see his car following her’s. Pillay said he and his friend walked back to his vehicle but the policeman allegedly grabbed and twisted his friend's arm and slammed his head on his mom's car bonnet. "I told him to leave my friend, and the policeman punched me on the nose. He hit me hard and I felt dizzy. The female officer also assaulted us, while he kicked and punched us.” He said two other metro police vehicles arrived. “The same officer then pulled out his firearm and cocked it. I tried to run but I lost my balance. I was then kicked in the face and hit on the head with a gun." He said the metro police continued to assault him while he was on the ground. “The other police officers, who arrived, pulled him away and asked him what he was doing. I tried to get up but I felt something heavy on my chest. The female officer put her boot on my chest and then her knee. She handcuffed me before I was lifted and thrown into the back of the metro police van with my friend." Pillay said they were taken to Chatsworth police station just after 1pm. He said he was again assaulted by the male and female officers in the parking lot. “We were not charged but thrown into a cell. The officers left and returned at about 9 or 10pm. We were only then charged with reckless and negligent driving, resisting an arrest, and assault on an officer." The following day, their attorney, Noven Naidoo, told them the matter was not enrolled in court due to insufficient evidence and they were released. “I immediately went to the doctor. I was in pain and had cuts and bruises on my face, head and body." Pillay has since opened a case against the male officer on Friday. “We did nothing wrong but we were attacked and thrown into a cold cell overnight. I will not let this be swept under the carpet. This needs to be investigated. The police are not above the law to use a firearm on unarmed civilians." Provincial SAPS spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said a case of common assault was opened at Chatsworth police station for investigation. Metro police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parbhoo Sewpersad said the metro police were aware of the incident. “The members were doing routine patrol when they came under attack by the civilians. Charges have been made by the police officer. We are aware a counter-charge has also been made by the civilian at the SAPS. We (metro police) have not received a complaint from the civilian against the police officer. “However, if a person wants to lay a complaint against a metro police officer, they need to, in writing, together with all the necessary evidence, drop it off at the metro police headquarters, so that we can conduct a full investigation and provide feedback to the complainant.” The Post 