Durban: Trucks transporting goods to a hardware store in Verulam have become problematic, say residents. "They are super link trucks and weigh at least 30 to 40 tons. These trucks have created potholes and they have cracked the pavements and manhole covers. Some of them have even damaged the street light poles," said Rayseelan Naidoo, a resident. He said about five trucks passed through the suburb daily to get to the hardware store. "These super link trucks deliver timber and cement. There are also smaller tip trucks that deliver sand and stones. Since they use the road so often, it cracks. When they park at the roadside, they damage the pavements and manhole covers, and cement falls onto our verges. When they reverse, there is a loud beeping noise. "Like many others, my family and I work from home during the pandemic. We sometimes cannot hear what is being discussed on the phone and Zoom meetings." He said he recently collected money from residents to buy plants to beautify the sidewalks in the area. "But the trucks destroyed the greenery. We raised our concerns with the owner of the hardware store. He acknowledged us but does nothing. The councillor said signs would be erected – that vehicles more than five tons would not be allowed – but the municipality has done nothing." Anil Singh, another resident, said as ratepayers they should not be subjected to such living conditions. “Apart from the pollution and damage to our roads, we have a problem with traffic. The trucks are so heavy that they are unable to move up the road quickly. This causes congestion. Will anyone buy our homes if they see what is happening? All we want is to live peacefully.” Vish Roopnarain, from the Verulam Civic Association, said he did not get a response from the city about his concerns. “Residents should not be subjected to this treatment. The municipality is ignoring our pleas for answers. The roads are in a poor condition, and pavements and verges are damaged. They need to enforce the by-laws.” Johnson Chetty, the councillor for the area, said: “When I questioned the municipality about why the trucks were allowed to operate, I was told that due process was followed. They did not elaborate further. I asked for signs stating that vehicles more than five tons should not be allowed in the area and I am yet to receive them.” Chetty said the municipality needed to be held accountable for allowing trucks to operate in residential areas. “They can stop it by ensuring those responsible are fined. I have seen the damage these trucks cause. Residents need a solution to this problem." The owner and manager of the hardware store were not available for comment. The Post