DURBAN - A multi-player commitment, vessel on-time berthing and sailing have helped Transnet Port Terminals’s (TPT) car-handling operating station in Durban to break new ground with a record number of automotive units handled since its inception 26 years ago. Moshe Motlohi, Durban Port’s general manager, said the car terminal recorded the highest number of automotive units for the month of June, at 51 407 units against a target of 29 126. There had been a high shipment level for “certain export Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs)”, said Motlohi, who added that the achievement came contrary to unfavourable global market demand related to the Covid-19 pandemic. This was as a result of a myriad factors, including “resilience from the teams on the ground”, which demonstrated a “determination to respond to the call for economic reconstruction of the province and the country at large”. “The launch of new models as well as rental and corporate re-fleeting has also had a huge role to play in the increased volumes,” said Motlohi. “On-time berthing and sailing for all automotive vessels have proven to be catalysts for such great performance and as such the port recorded zero Marine Service delays for the month of June 2021. This in turn enabled high berth utilisation and therefore creating capacity to handle more volumes,” he said. “We would like to congratulate the car terminal teams and everyone involved in the automotive value chain for the outstanding work during the month of June. This amazing performance is exactly what the port needed. “We firmly believe that when we work together as partners, we can achieve good results. We want to cherish this as part of building momentum; using the small wins approach and this performance is also a positive indicator of the recovery being made by the automotive sector. “From an integrated planning perspective, the port was also able to avail more parking capacity for the terminal. The collaborative approach between TNPA (Transnet National Port Authority), TPT and shipping lines also played a key role in achieving such volumes,” said Motlohi. In December 2018, the terminal first recorded the highest number of 50 169 volumes in one month against the budgeted 38 479, said the state- owned entity. During its infancy days, the car terminal used to deal with around 1 600 units a month. THE MERCURY