Durban: Three people were killed and several people injured in horror accidents on KZN roads this weekend. One person was killed in a horror accident on the M7 highway on Sunday afternoon. Garrith Jamieson, of KZN VIP Medical Paramedics, said paramedics arrived on the scene just after 4pm to find “total carnage”.  “A truck and multiple vehicles had collided at the intersection. “One person, a male believed to be in his thirties,sustained fatal injuries and there was nothing more paramedics could do for him and he was declared deceased on the scene. “Three others sustained moderate to serious injuries and were stabilised on the scene before being transported to a nearby Durban hospital for further treatment.” Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele confirmed a case of culpable homicide was opened at Bellair SAPS. “It is alleged that at 4.45pm, a truck and several vehicles collided when the truck failed to stop  at a robot between M7 and N2. “A man driving one of the vehicles in his twenties was fatally injured and a 39-year-old truck driver was arrested. He will appear in court soon.” In an accident on Saturday evening, one person was killed in a crash involving multiple vehicles on the N2 in the vicinity of Zinkwazi. Paul Herbst, of IPSS Medical Rescue, said paramedics were met with “chaos on scene”. “Reports from scene indicate that a vehicle had allegedly broken down and was being pushed to safety, when it was rear-ended. Following the rear-ending, vehicles allegedly crossed lanes into oncoming traffic, resulting in further collisions.  “Advanced life support paramedics declared one person dead on scene whilst they worked to stabilise a further two patients.” Herbst said all injured patients were transported to hospital. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele confirmed a case of culpable homicide is being investigated by Newark SAPS. “It is alleged that on June 3 at 6.30pm, five vehicles were involved in a collision on the N2 opposite Makhindale farm. A 45-year-old driver was knocked by another vehicle while pushing his vehicle and he died on the scene. Two injured passengers who were in another vehicle sustained injuries and were taken to hospital for medical attention.” In another incident, also on Saturday evening, one person was killed after being ejected from a bakkie. Herbst said IPSS Medical Rescue responded to reports of a serious collision near Mandeni. “On arrival of advanced life support paramedics, it was established that a bakkie had left the roadway and rolled, ejecting its five occupants.   “One patient sustained critical injuries while the other four sustained moderate injuries. “Paramedics worked to stabilise patients on scene before transporting them to medical facilities, under the care of IPSS Medical Rescue practitioners. Unfortunately, one patient succumbed to their injuries after arriving at hospital.” IOL 