DURBAN protesters looted Makro in Springfield and stole goods to the value of about R80 000 on Sunday. This follows more than 120 protests and looting incidents that were attended to by eThekwini Metro Police since Friday. National police spokesperson Major-General Mathapelo Peters said in KZN, where incidents of violent protests started on Friday, the number of arrests has increased to at least 37. The Massmart-owned Makro store was one of several stores looted by protesters this weekend. In a statement on Sunday night, Massmart senior vice president of corporate affairs Brian Leroni confirmed that a group of about 25 protesters entered the Makro Springfield store at around 2.45pm and made off with products to the value of about R80 000. “We are grateful that no one was injured during the incident,” he said.   IOL reported on Friday that although there has been no confirmation, provincial police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele stated in an interview with SAfm, that the protests may be as a result of the incarceration of former president Jacob Zuma. Zuma handed himself over to police on Wednesday, to begin a 15-month jail term for contempt of court, after a long legal battle. The Mercury reported earlier today that violent protests had erupted in various parts of the city on Sunday morning. A statement released by the provincial government on Sunday said at least 37 trucks had been torched in various parts of the province since the protests began – 28 were torched in Mooi River, six on the N2 in Zululand, one in Umgababa, one in Lidgetton, and one on the R603. Owner of Dijoms Logistics Ntuthuko Mhlongo was left distraught after his truck, which was en route from Johannesburg to Durban, was burnt in Mooi River. Mhlongo said he was alerted after the driver activated the panic button. He said when he responded to the scene, there was chaos – as protesters were looting the trucks and attacking truck drivers. Mhlongo said his truck was carrying aluminium worth R3 million. “The truck was worth R2 million and the trailer was worth about R800 000,” said Mhlongo. Mhlongo said the looting of his truck will not only affect his business but the truck driver as well. “The driver does not have a truck now, which means his working shifts have been affected. The business has lost a truck and that means there’s less money coming in. We were already battling the pandemic, now this is another low blow for us,” said Mhlongo. Truck driver Mbuso Buthelezi said he was driving his way to Durban from Johannesburg when he saw a fire. “We did not see any signs of the protests on the road, the blaze was our only sign. I think the protest had just started then, so we managed to quickly make a U-turn and went to the nearest truck stop. We stayed there the whole night and only started leaving when the situation started subsiding,” he said.    THE MERCURY