Durban: What started off as a sandwich challenge to residents to feed poor and destitute families, has turned into a bigger project for a Chatsworth resident. Last week, Daryl Naidu, who is also known by his wrestling stage name Nightmare, visited his local Pick n Pay store in Chatsworth to buy food for hampers. “I was brought up to believe that I could make a difference and that I should always help others. I own a tattoo business and half of whatever I make for the day goes towards hampers. “Every morning I go to the Pick n Pay to buy items for food hampers. The staff knows about my project so they set stuff aside for me. Last week, I was hungry so I decided to go to the deli there. The polony sandwich with tomato and lettuce was priced at R5. It looked good so I bought four sandwiches. The staff told me it was the store's 50th birthday and that they had slashed the price." Naidu said he handed out the sandwiches to four people he saw in the area. "I could not get over the fact that I was able to get a nice meal for as little as R5, so I took to social media and requested that others do their bit. I am inspired by our former president Nelson Mandela to do good deeds so I started a challenge." He said since then, customers have purchased more than 8 000 sandwiches from Pick and Pay stores by customers to be given to people. “I am amazed. In addition to those who are homeless, many families have lost their income during the Covid-19 pandemic and they need a helping hand. Those who saw the challenge on social media responded so well and went out and did their bit to help others." He said on Friday, he was about to give an elderly homeless man that lived near the Chatsworth Centre two sandwiches. “But he smiled and said he already got two sandwiches and that I must please give it to someone else. It really touched me because one, it meant others heard my call-out and were helping people, and secondly, the man who had nothing was willing to offer his share to someone else for the day.” Luvette Singh, of Durban North, saw Naidu's post and she bought dozens of sandwiches from Pick n Pay’s Durban North Hypermarket to donate. She said management called her to the store on Monday. "Rowena Govender, of Pick n Pay, acknowledged the sandwich challenge that I accepted and carried out. She called me into the store and I, in turn, called Darryl, who started the challenge, to accompany me." She said they were given a R 1000 voucher to buy more sandwiches. "The staff also raised money for 300 sandwiches to distribute on Monday. It was delivered to people living in Riet River, Belvedere and Chatsworth." In a statement, Pick n Pay’s Durban North Hypermarket said close to 1 000 sandwiches were donated by customers and the store to those in need. "This follows a recent challenge by a customer (Singh), who purchased 100 sandwiches from the Durban North Hypermarket for people in need in the Piet River area. The customer put out a call to action on social media challenging others in the surrounding communities to do the same. Since then orders have been pouring in at the Durban North Hypermarket from residents wanting to donate sandwiches. Pick n Pay Durban North Hypermarket will continue encouraging customers and their employees to make sandwich donations." To contribute to the challenge, call Rowena Govender or Lavona Van Niekerk on 087 750 5994. The Post