Durban: South African artist Thashen Moodley, of Gauteng, has become a published illustrator for an international children’s book, at just 17. The book, titled The Different Dinosaur,  was written by London author Range George Naidoo. She said she found out about Thashen’s ability to draw through family. “A few years ago, I was with my family in Johannesburg, talking to my nephew. There was a lull in the conversation so to fill the void, he took his phone out and showed me Thashen’s artwork. I was wowed and told him I needed someone to illustrate for me. Within minutes, I was talking to Salosh (Thashen’s mom) on the phone. Thashen was on board immediately,” said Naidoo. She entrusted the then 14-year-old with a draft copy of her book. “When I returned to London, I shared my book with him and within a day, he sent me the first pencil sketches. I knew he was the right person for the job.” Juggling school work and the book, Thashen, a Grade 12 pupil at Allen Glen High School, hand-painted every illustration, bringing the story to life. These were used in Naidoo’s book, which was launched on Amazon recently.  “For someone so young at the time, his vision, consistency and dedication were profound. And yet he remains this humble child, hiding his light under a bushel. He is so lucky to have such championing parents as well, who are equally dedicated and who have passed on a work ethic that is going to take Thashen far.” Thashen said: “I didn’t realise that what I accomplished was something of this magnitude, and for it to be published on Amazon too. I am absolutely grateful to Range George Naidoo for believing in me and for promoting my talents. This has given me international recognition.” The book, for children of all ages, encompasses a story with a message of inclusion, kindness, friendship and love. It is about a dinosaur, Dygon, who from the day he was born, knew he was different from the other dinosaurs in his village. The other dinosaurs did not help to make him feel included and accepted. But one day, Dygon was able to show everyone that different can be great. This was Naidoo’s first book, which she wrote part-time. Her day job is in social services. She said the book was a labour of love and that it was inspired by her son, who is autistic. “He has so many gifts that were hidden for a long time because some of the people who were supporting him were too scared to let him have the freedom to show it. But they were not unkind at all. Some children in his school laughed at him. Whilst this was upsetting, I understood that their mindsets needed to be changed.” Naidoo hoped that through her book, parents would speak to their children and teach them that when they were around someone who was different, they should be kind. She moved to the UK in 1999 on a two-year working holiday visa. She loved it so much that she asked her employer to apply for a work permit for her. “I have been working for the London Borough of Richmond from 2000. I work in social services with organisations that look after older people, adults with autism, learning disabilities and mental health issues.” Thashen has been commissioned to illustrate in Naidoo’s second book. His mom and agent said: “I am so overwhelmed by his achievement. This book has created immense opportunity for Thashen and I am confident he is going to excel in everything he does. We recognised his remarkable artistic abilities from a young age and we encouraged and supported his journey in every way we could.” The Post