Durban: Tears of joy were shed when the residents of Stranraer House in Sydenham found out they did not have to vacate the private old age home. In 2019, the female residents feared they would become homeless due to an increase in their monthly rental – from R1 630 to R3 000. Stranraer House, which has been in existence for more than 50 years, is owned and run by the Stranraer Charitable Trust. The pensioners' rental fee covered boarding and three meals. What remained of their R1 780 government pension was used for laundry, toiletries and bus fare to hospital and clinics for those who collected medication. When the letters of the increase were sent to the 20 residents, they were told that most of the trustees were dead and that the funds were low. The letter said there was no other choice but to increase the rental. Some of the women contacted Easlyn Young, who is on the committee for youth, gender and vulnerable persons in their ward, and Maureen Rambhadursing from the Poor Flat Dwellers Movement. Young and Rambhadursing then formed the senior citizens care team of Sydenham. They contacted an attorney and took the matter to the community schemes Ombudsman. In their application, they asked that the ombudsman stop the rental increase. Last week, the ombudsman ordered that the increase be suspended. In her ruling, adjudicator Asha Sewpersad said the monthly increase was unreasonable. She referred to an 83-year-old resident, who collected a pension of R1 800 in her order. “An increase in rent to R3 000 per month is completely unreasonable as the applicant would have no funds for her basic necessities and medical costs. The respondent’s actions, in this case, appear to be arbitrary and in clear conflict with legislation.” On hearing this, the residents shouted and hugged each other. Sandra Moodley, 84, a retired salesperson, formerly of Hibberdene, said she has lived in the home for more than 20 years. “I have one daughter and she moved to Johannesburg years ago. When I turned 61, I decided that I would move to a home as I did not want to trouble my daughter. I initially applied at Tafta and they referred me to this place. When I received the letter in 2019 about the rental increase I was shocked and scared. “My daughter, who has an ill son, said she would try her best to help me." She said she supported the residents in challenging the rental increase. "Each day, I prayed to God for a miracle. I put my faith and trust in Him as I knew he would not forsake us. We are all pensioners, who have worked hard all our lives. Now when it's time to rest and relax, we should not be put through anything like that and He answered our prayers.” Joyce Muruvan, 65, a retired machinist, has lived at the home for eight years. “When we were told we did not have to pay R3 000 we were so happy. We have been living here for a while and we all have our own stories and hardships. We came here to rest and to build a sisterhood. “When we got the letters about the increases, we all panicked. We wondered where we would put our heads to rest at night. But I remained positive that we would be okay. Last week, when the attorneys gave us the news we screamed and some cried. I think the outcome was more special because the country celebrated Freedom Day. We also celebrated our victory.” Gloriann Scheepers, 63, who worked in retail, has lived at the home for seven years. She does not have children and this was the reason for moving to a home. “I lived in Asherville and heard about this place. When I got here, it was beautiful. It is central and we are free to go wherever we want. But when we received the letters, I cried. I feared I would lose everything and I did not have anywhere else to go. “When you are old, you want safety and to rest and relax. You don't want to stress over things or feel insecure. Earlier in the year, I lost my only brother, my sister and my sister-in-law. I took it badly because I never saw them before they passed. So hearing that my home was secure was a real pick me up. At least now, I do not have to worry about the future.” Charmaine Khan, 71, a retired sample machinist, moved in four years ago. “Most of us have had hard lives. We came here with our Sassa money. We went through a lot of uncertain times during the wait but thanks to our legal team, we are able to live freely now. I did not want to leave this place as we are a sisterhood, a family." Young said: “The Stranraer House case has set the bar for other homes to follow. Never again will senior citizens be abused, humiliated and stripped of their dignity in the name of a caregiver. “The winning formula for us was community participation in a collaborative approach, with stakeholders and Chapter 9 institutions, that have a mandate to secure and maintain the human rights of every citizen.” The Post