Durban - THE survivor of a shooting that occurred in Malagazi Township near Isipingo two weeks ago, remains in a critical condition. The 17-year-old, who cannot be named because he is a minor, was allegedly in a relationship with Allestine Noleen Joseph who was killed during the incident. Last week, the POST reported that the couple were asleep in his bedroom on the morning of April 30 when five men broke down the door to his home and shot them several times. Joseph, 35, who owned a scrap metal business, was shot in the right arm, left leg and chest. She died at the scene. The mother of two was cremated at the Clare Estate Crematorium last Wednesday. The survivor's family said he was shot on the left side of his body, his back, chest and the back of his head. One of the bullets exited through his nose. He was discharged from hospital on Saturday but was re-admitted on Tuesday after his wounds began to bleed. His aunt said he told her that he was asleep with Joseph on his bed when they were awoken by the sound of the door being kicked open. She said five men armed with guns entered the bedroom and opened fire on them. “He could not see their faces because they were wearing hooded jackets. They did not say anything to them. The first shot was fired at him. The bullet struck him in the chest. He turned his body around and lay on his stomach. He told Noleen to do the same.” She said as they turned, the men continued to shoot at them. “He was shot at the back of the head. The bullet exited through his nose. He was also shot at the side of his body and back. It all happened so quickly. The men fled. He managed to get off the bed and walk to his uncle's home which was nearby.” The aunt said some of his uncle's workers saw him coming and alerted her. “He was staggering toward the home. He was covered in blood. The workers rushed him to the hospital and his uncle and I followed. He is unable to walk or talk. His food has to be liquidised and we are feeding him through a straw. Our focus is now to get him better.” She said after his father's death a few years ago, his mother signed legal guardianship over to his uncle. “He lived in a one-bedroomed house near his uncle's home. We were trying to get him enrolled in school so he could complete Grade 11. Due to personal issues, he did not attend school. He was in a relationship with Noleen for a year. Both her family and ours did not approve because of the age difference but despite our objections, they continued to see each other.” The aunt said they were praying for his speedy recovery. “We just want him to heal. He does not know why these men came after him and Noleen. There are rumours that this was a drug-related shooting but this is not true. None of them was involved in drugs.” She said they were waiting for answers from the police. “We need a thorough investigation into this shooting. We want to know who is responsible for killing Noleen and shooting my nephew.” Houston Joseph, the deceased brother, said the family were aware of the relationship and also did not approve. Joseph also said he was also waiting for answers from the police. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said charges of murder and attempted murder were being investigated and no arrests had been made. She appealed to anyone with information to call Crime Stop on 08600 10111. POST 