Durban: Jemimah Elise Sampson, a Grade 4 learner at Whetstone Primary School in Phoenix, won the East Coast Radio Spelling Bee competition with the word “personification”. The five-week #KZNLastStading Spelling Bee was at the radio station's premises in uMhlanga. More than 900 Grade 4 learners in KwaZulu-Natal too part. Jemimah won prizes worth R100 000. They included school fees to the value of R15 000, a Playstation 5, a tablet loaded with data, a family holiday for four, educational board games, and lunch for and her grade. She said she was grateful to her family who helped her practise her spelling. “I feel happy, relieved and joyful that I won the East Coast Radio competition, and now I am in the paper (the POST). I got most of the words right from the first week because my parents and grandma were helpful with my spelling practice. When I got to week four and I was still getting my words right, I knew I was ready and I gave it my best.” She said her favourite subject was maths and that she was good in English. "I am looking forward to entering more competitions and spelling bees because I am confident. I advise my peers to practice, be confident and don’t be afraid to try new things.” Michelle Sampson, Jemimah’s mother, said: “She is used to the spotlight with regard to school and taking part in and winning competitions and any other activities from a young age. She has a bubbly personality and is outgoing. “Jemimah has always loved to read and learn. She came out first for almost every competition she entered and she competed against other schools and won. “When we heard about the spelling bee, her friends and close family members reached out for her to enter because they believed in her. She was more interested because the competition was going to be aired on ECR, which happened to be her favourite radio station. Since then, we practised her words with her each day. “From now on, I hope she keeps her positive mind, does not limit herself, and keeps up with doing all the academic fun stuff.” Vinothia Pillay, the principal at Whetstone Primary School, said: “Jemimah’s love for reading and interests in new challenges has culminated in her excellence in spelling. She has set high goals for herself, the school and the community of Whetstone. Her victory over learners from esteemed schools is a testament to her determination, passion for learning and unbreakable confidence. These are traits that are worthy companions of any scholar. “Her debut on stage was in Grade R, as a programme director for grandparent’s day. This tiny tot, at that time, commanded the audience of grandparents and had them starstruck. She won the Phoenix-Verulam Tongaat Speech Contest finals for three years and she was the Spelling Whizz champion in Grade 2.” Darren Maule, the ECR morning show presenter and who was one of the presenters hosting the competition, said on the radio station’s website: “Being a dad myself, I know what it is like to put yourself out there as a parent and how brave it must be for a Grade 4 learner. “We have some incredibly smart kids in KZN, and all parents and participants should be so proud of the show they put on and for giving us all something so educational and entertaining to listen to.”