Durban - YURAV Premlall (17) followed in the footsteps of golfing giants by claiming victory in the inaugural Nedbank Junior Challenge with a score of three-under-par at the Gary Player Country Club in Sun City last week. Carrying a one-shot lead into the final round, Premlall fended off competition from nearest challenger and 2021 Boland Amateur Champion Jordan Duminy. “It felt amazing to clinch the Nedbank Junior Challenge especially with it being the first edition of it. I had to face some stiff competition from Jordan Duminy and Christiaan Maas. Jordan forced me to bring some of my better golf so it was a great challenge,” Premlall told Post. As a reward for his victory, Premlall received a replica of the Nedbank Golf Challenge trophy and earned himself a behind-the-scenes experience at the next Nedbank Golf Challenge event in Sun City. “The replica trophy is definitely going to the front of the trophy cabinet and it gives me more drive to add the Nedbank Golf Challenge to the closet one day,” he said. “I can’t wait to experience Africa’s Major from the other side of the ropes,” he said. “I don’t have all the details yet, but I’ll get to meet players, watch them on the driving range up close and I get to walk the golf course during the Pro-Am. It’s going to be epic.” The victory marked the first time that Premall, who resides in Eden Glen, Gauteng, has made it to the winner’s circle since he won the Harry Oppenheimer Trophy and Central Gauteng Open last November. In May 2019 he became the youngest winner of a Big Easy IGT Challenge event, a professional golf event. His potential has earned him comparisons to South African golf legend Papwa Sewgolum. “Papwa was definitely the pioneer for South African Indian golf, so it’s a nice comparison to be put next to him but I still have a long way to go but I’m humbled by the comparison,” said Premlall. “Golfing in the Indian community is definitely growing and I’m sure we are going to see a lot more talent coming through. My dad (Raakesh Premlall) is still always here to support me and help me analyse where my game is at, so I’m thankful for all the support he gives me,” said Yurav. Raakesh, who originally hails from Shallcross in Durban, said that sheer enthusiasm for the game has been a key reason in his son’s success. “Yurav’s success was built from the enjoyment of the game. Competitive kids golf spurred his ambitions for success. With that he was able to commit himself to a work ethic that enabled success,” he said. POST